— chapter thirty-five — beyond the veil black shapes were emerging out of thin air all around them, blocking their way left and right; eyes glinted through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand-tips were pointing directly at their hearts; Ginevra_Weasley gave a gasp of horror. ‘to me, potter,’ repeated the drawling voice of Lucius_Malfoy as he held out his hand, palm up. Harry_Potter’s  insides plummeted sickeningly. they were  trapped, and outnumbered two to one. ‘to me,’ said malfoy yet again. ‘where’s Sirius_Black?’ Harry_Potter said. several of the death eaters laughed; a harsh female voice from the midst of the shadowy figures to Harry_Potter’s left said triumphantly, ‘the dark lord always knows!’ ‘always,’ echoed malfoy softly. ‘now, give me the prophecy, potter.’ ‘i want to know where Sirius_Black is!’ ‘i want to know where Sirius_Black is!’ mimicked the woman to his left. she and her fellow death eaters had closed in so that they were mere feet away from Harry_Potter and the others, the light from their wands dazzling Harry_Potter’s eyes. ‘you’ve got him,’ said Harry_Potter, ignoring the rising panic in his chest, the dread he had been fighting since they had first entered the ninety-seventh row. ‘he’s here. i know he is.’ ‘the little baby woke up fwightened and fort what it dweamed was twoo,’ said the woman in a horrible, mock baby voice. Harry_Potter felt Ronald_Weasley stir beside him. ‘don’t do anything,’ Harry_Potter muttered. ‘not yet –’ the woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous scream of laughter. ‘you hear him? you hear him? giving instructions to the other children as though he thinks of fighting us!’    ‘oh, you don’t know potter as i do, Bellatrix_Lestrange,’ said malfoy softly. ‘he has a great weakness for heroics; the dark lord understands this about him. now give me the prophecy, potter.’ ‘i know Sirius_Black is here,’ said Harry_Potter, though panic was causing his chest to constrict and he felt as though he could not breathe properly. ‘i know you’ve got him!’ more of the death eaters laughed, though the woman laughed loudest of all. ‘it’s time you learned the difference between life and dreams, potter,’ said malfoy. ‘now give me the prophecy, or we start using wands.’ ‘go on, then,’ said Harry_Potter, raising his own wand to chest height. as he did so, the five wands of Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger, Neville_Longbottom, Ginevra_Weasley and Luna_Lovegood Rose_Zeller on either side of him. the knot in Harry_Potter’s stomach tightened. if Sirius_Black really was not here, he had led his friends to their deaths for no reason at all … but the death eaters did not strike. ‘hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt,’ said malfoy coolly. it was Harry_Potter’s turn to laugh. ‘yeah, right!’ he said. ‘i give you this – prophecy, is it? and you’ll just let us skip off home, will you?’ the words were hardly out of his mouth when the female death eater shrieked: ‘accio proph––’ Harry_Potter was just ready for her: he shouted ‘protego!’ before she had finished her spell, and though the glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fingers he managed to cling on to it. ‘oh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby potter,’ she said, her mad eyes staring through the slits in her hood. ‘very well, then –’ ‘i told you, no!’ Lucius_Malfoy roared at the woman. ‘if you smash it –!’ Harry_Potter’s mind was racing. the death eaters wanted this dusty spun-glass sphere. he had no interest in it. he just wanted to get them all out of this alive, to make sure none of his friends paid a terrible price for his stupidity … the woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, and pulled off her hood. azkaban had hollowed Bellatrix_Lestrange’s face, making it gaunt and skull-like, but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow. ‘you need more persuasion?’ she said, her chest rising and falling rapidly. ‘very well – take the smallest one,’ she ordered the death eaters beside her. ‘let him watch while we torture the little girl. i’ll do it.’ Harry_Potter felt the others close in around Ginevra_Weasley; he stepped sideways so that he was right in front of her, the prophecy held up to his chest. ‘you’ll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us,’ he told Bellatrix_Lestrange. ‘i don’t think your boss will be too pleased if you come back without it, will he?’ she did not move; she merely stared at him, the tip of her tongue moistening her thin mouth. ‘so,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘what kind of prophecy are we talking about, anyway?’ he could not think what to do but to keep talking. Neville_Longbottom’s arm was pressed against his, and he could feel him shaking; he could feel one of the others’ quickened breath on the back of his head. he was hoping they were all thinking hard about ways to get out of this, because his mind was blank. ‘what kind of prophecy?’ repeated Bellatrix_Lestrange, the grin fading from her face. ‘you jest, Harry_Potter.’ ‘nope, not jesting,’ said Harry_Potter, his eyes flicking from death eater to death eater, looking for a weak link, a space through which they could escape. ‘how come voldemort wants it?’ several of the death eaters let out low hisses. ‘you dare speak his name?’ whispered Bellatrix_Lestrange. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, maintaining his tight grip on the glass ball, expecting another attempt to bewitch it from him. ‘yeah, i’ve got no problem with saying vol––’ ‘shut your mouth!’ Bellatrix_Lestrange shrieked. ‘you dare speak his name with your unworthy lips, you dare besmirch it with your halfblood’s tongue, you dare –’ ‘did you know he’s a half-blood too?’ said Harry_Potter recklessly. Hermione_Granger gave a little moan in his ear. ‘voldemort? yeah, his mother was a witch but his dad was a muggle – or has he been telling you lot he’s pure-blood?’ ‘stupef––’ ‘no!’ a jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix_Lestrange’s wand, but malfoy had deflected it; his spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of Harry_Potter and several of the glass orbs there shattered. two figures, pearly-white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, unfurled themselves from the fragments of broken glass upon the floor and each began to speak; their voices vied with each other, so that only fragments of what they were saying could be heard over malfoy and Bellatrix_Lestrange’s shouts. ‘… at the solstice will come a new …’ said the figure of an old, bearded man. ‘do not attack! we need the prophecy!’ ‘he dared – he dares –’ shrieked Bellatrix_Lestrange incoherently, ‘he stands there – filthy half-blood –’ ‘wait until we’ve got the prophecy!’ bawled malfoy. ‘… and none will come after …’ said the figure of a young woman. the two figures that had burst from the shattered spheres had melted into thin air. nothing remained of them or their erstwhile homes but fragments of glass upon the floor. they had, however, given Harry_Potter an idea. the problem was going to be conveying it to the others. ‘you haven’t told me what’s so special about this prophecy i’m supposed to be handing over,’ he said, playing for time. he moved his foot slowly sideways, feeling around for someone else’s. ‘do not play games with us, potter,’ said malfoy. ‘i’m not playing games,’ said Harry_Potter, half his mind on the conversation, half on his wandering foot. and then he found someone’s toes and pressed down upon them. a sharp intake of breath behind him told him they were Hermione_Granger’s. ‘what?’ she whispered. ‘Albus_Dumbledore never told you the reason you bear that scar was hidden in the bowels of the department of mysteries?’ malfoy sneered. ‘i – what?’ said Harry_Potter. and for a moment he quite forgot his plan. ‘what about my scar?’ ‘what?’ whispered Hermione_Granger more urgently behind him. ‘can this be?’ said malfoy, sounding maliciously delighted; some of the death eaters were laughing again, and under cover of their laughter, Harry_Potter hissed to Hermione_Granger, moving his lips as little as possible, ‘smash shelves –’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore never told you?’ malfoy repeated. ‘well, this explains why you didn’t come earlier, potter, the dark lord wondered why –’ ‘– when i say now –’ ‘– you didn’t come running when he showed you the place where it was hidden in your dreams. he thought natural curiosity would make you want to hear the exact wording …’ ‘did he?’ said Harry_Potter. behind him he felt rather than heard Hermione_Granger passing his message to the others and he sought to keep talking, to distract the death eaters. ‘so he wanted me to come and get it, did he? why?’ ‘why?’ malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. ‘because the only people who are permitted to retrieve a prophecy from the department of mysteries, potter, are those about whom it was made, as the dark lord discovered when he attempted to use others to steal it for him.’ ‘and why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?’ ‘about both of you, potter, about both of you … haven’t you ever wondered why the dark lord tried to kill you as a baby?’ Harry_Potter stared into the slitted eye-holes through which malfoy’s grey eyes were gleaming. was this prophecy the reason Harry_Potter’s parents had died, the reason he carried his Harry_Potter-bolt scar? was the answer to all of this clutched in his hand? ‘someone made a prophecy about voldemort and me?’ he said quietly, gazing at Lucius_Malfoy, his fingers tightening over the warm glass sphere in his hand. it was hardly larger than a snitch and still gritty with dust. ‘and he’s made me come and get it for him? why couldn’t he come and get it himself?’ ‘get it himself?’ shrieked Bellatrix_Lestrange, over a cackle of mad laughter. ‘the dark lord, walk into the ministry of magic, when they are so sweetly ignoring his return? the dark lord, reveal himself to the aurors, when at the moment they are wasting their time on my dear cousin?’ ‘so, he’s got you doing his dirty work for him, has he?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘like he tried to get Sturgis_Podmore to steal it – and Broderick_Bode?’ ‘very good, potter, very good …’ said malfoy slowly. ‘but the dark lord knows you are not unintell—’ ‘now!’ yelled Harry_Potter. five different voices behind him bellowed, ‘reducto!’ five curses flew in five different directions and the shelves opposite them exploded as they hit; the towering structure swayed as a hundred glass spheres burst apart, pearly- white figures unfurled into the air and floated there, their voices echoing from who knew what long-dead past amid the torrent of crashing glass and splintered wood now raining down upon the floor – ‘run!’ Harry_Potter yelled, as the shelves swayed precariously and more glass spheres began to fall from above. he seized a handful of Hermione_Granger’s robes and dragged her forwards, holding one arm over his head as chunks of shelf and shards of glass thundered down upon them. a death eater lunged forwards through the cloud of dust and Harry_Potter elbowed him hard in the masked face; they were all yelling, there were cries of pain, and thunderous crashes as the shelves collapsed upon themselves, weirdly echoing fragments of the seers unleashed from their spheres – Harry_Potter found the way ahead clear and saw Ronald_Weasley Ginevra_Weasley and Luna_Lovegood sprint past him, their arms over their heads; something heavy struck him on the side of the face but he merely ducked his head and sprinted onwards; a hand caught him by the shoulder; he heard Hermione_Granger shout, ‘stupefy!’ the hand released him at once – they were at the end of row ninety-seven; Harry_Potter turned right and began to sprint in earnest; he could hear footsteps right behind him and Hermione_Granger’s voice urging Neville_Longbottom on; straight ahead, the door through which they had come was ajar; Harry_Potter could see the glittering light of the bell jar; he pelted through the doorway, the prophecy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, and waited for the others to hurtle over the threshold before slamming the door behind them – ‘colloportus!’ gasped Hermione_Granger and the door sealed itself with an odd squelching noise. ‘where – where are the others?’ gasped Harry_Potter. he had thought Ronald_Weasley Luna_Lovegood and Ginevra_Weasley were ahead of them, that they would be waiting in this room, but there was nobody there. ‘they must have gone the wrong way!’ whispered Hermione_Granger, terror in her face. ‘listen!’ whispered Neville_Longbottom. footsteps and shouts echoed from behind the door they had just sealed; Harry_Potter put his ear close to the door to listen and heard Lucius_Malfoy roar, ‘leave nott, leave him, i say – his injuries will be nothing to the dark lord compared to losing that prophecy. Jugson, come back here, we need to organise! we’ll split into pairs and search, and don’t forget, be gentle with potter until we’ve got the prophecy, you can kill the others if necessary – Bellatrix_Lestrange, Rodolphus_Lestrange, you take the left; crabbe, Rabastan_Lestrange, go right – Jugson, dolohov, the door straight ahead – macnair and Avery_II, through here – rookwood, over there – Mulciber_II, come with me!’ ‘what do we do?’ Hermione_Granger asked Harry_Potter, trembling from head to foot. ‘well, we don’t stand here waiting for them to find us, for a start,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘let’s get away from this door.’ they ran as quietly as they could, past the shimmering bell jar where the tiny egg was hatching and unhatching, towards the exit into the circular hallway at the far end of the room. they were almost there when Harry_Potter heard something large and heavy collide with the door Hermione_Granger had charmed shut. ‘stand aside!’ said a rough voice. ‘alohomora!’ as the door flew open, Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger and Neville_Longbottom dived under desks. they could see the bottom of the two death eaters’ robes drawing nearer, their feet moving rapidly. ‘they might’ve run straight through to the hall,’ said the rough voice. ‘check under the desks,’ said another. Harry_Potter saw the knees of the death eaters bend; poking his wand out from under the desk, he shouted, ‘stupefy!’ a jet of red light hit the nearest death eater; he fell backwards into a grandfather clock and knocked it over; the second death eater, however, had leapt aside to avoid Harry_Potter’s spell and was pointing his own wand at Hermione_Granger, who was crawling out from under the desk to get a better aim. ‘avada –’ Harry_Potter launched himself across the floor and grabbed the death eater around the knees, causing him to topple and his aim to go awry. Neville_Longbottom overturned a desk in his anxiety to help; and pointing his wand wildly at the struggling pair, he cried: ‘expelliarmus!’ both Harry_Potter’s and the death eater’s wands flew out of their hands and soared back towards the entrance to the hall of prophecy; both scrambled to their feet and charged after them, the death eater in front, Harry_Potter hot on his heels, and Neville_Longbottom bringing up the rear, plainly horrorstruck by what he had done. ‘get out of the way, Harry_Potter!’ yelled Neville_Longbottom, clearly determined to repair the damage. Harry_Potter flung himself sideways as Neville_Longbottom took aim again and shouted: ‘stupefy!’ the jet of red light flew right over the death eater’s shoulder and hit a glass-fronted cabinet on the wall full of variously shaped hour-glasses; the cabinet fell to the floor and burst apart, glass flying everywhere, sprang back up on to the wall, fully mended, then fell down again, and shattered – the death eater had snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor beside the glittering bell jar. Harry_Potter ducked down behind another desk as the man turned; his mask had slipped so that he couldn’t see. he ripped it off with his free hand and shouted: ‘stup––’ ‘stupefy!’ screamed Hermione_Granger, who had just caught up with them. the jet of red light hit the death eater in the middle of his chest: he froze, his arm still raised, his wand fell to the floor with a clatter and he collapsed backwards towards the bell jar. Harry_Potter expected to hear a clunk, for the man to hit solid glass and slide off the jar on to the floor, but instead, his head sank through the surface of the bell jar as though it were nothing but a soap bubble and he came to rest, sprawled on his back on the table, with his head lying inside the jar full of glittering wind. ‘accio wand!’ cried Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter’s wand flew from a dark corner into her hand and she threw it to him. ‘thanks,’ he said. ‘right, let’s get out of –’ ‘look out!’ said Neville_Longbottom, horrified. he was staring at the death eater’s head in the bell jar. all three of them raised their wands again, but none of them struck: they were all gazing, open-mouthed, appalled, at what was happening to the man’s head. it was shrinking very fast, growing balder and balder, the black hair and stubble retracting into his skull; his cheeks becoming smooth, his skull round and covered with a peachlike fuzz … a baby’s head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, muscled neck of the death eater as he struggled to get up again; but even as they watched, their mouths open, the head began to swell to its previous proportions again; thick black hair was sprouting from the pate and chin … ‘it’s time,’ said Hermione_Granger in an awestruck voice. ‘time …’ the death eater shook his ugly head again, trying to clear it, but before he could pull himself together it began to shrink back to babyhood once more … there was a shout from a room nearby, then a crash and a scream. ‘ron?’ Harry_Potter yelled, turning quickly from the monstrous transformation taking place before them. ‘Ginevra_Weasley? Luna_Lovegood?’ ‘Harry_Potter!’ Hermione_Granger screamed. the death eater had pulled his head out of the bell jar. his appearance was utterly bizarre, his tiny baby’s head bawling loudly while his thick arms flailed dangerously in all directions, narrowly missing Harry_Potter, who had ducked. Harry_Potter raised his wand but to his amazement Hermione_Granger seized his arm. ‘you can’t hurt a baby!’ there was no time to argue the point; Harry_Potter could hear more footsteps growing louder from the hall of prophecy and knew, too late, that he ought not to have shouted and given away their position. ‘come on!’ he said, and leaving the ugly baby-headed death eater staggering behind them they took off for the door that stood open at the other end of the room, leading back into the black hallway. they had run halfway towards it when Harry_Potter saw through the open door two more death eaters running across the black room towards them; veering left, he burst instead into a small, dark, cluttered office and slammed the door behind them. ‘collo—’ began Hermione_Granger, but before she could complete the spell the door had burst open and the two death eaters had come hurtling inside. with a cry of triumph, both yelled: ‘impedimenta!’ Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger and Neville_Longbottom were all knocked backwards off their feet; Neville_Longbottom was thrown over the desk and disappeared from view; Hermione_Granger smashed into a bookcase and was promptly deluged in a cascade of heavy books; the back of Harry_Potter’s head slammed into the stone wall behind him, tiny lights burst in front of his eyes and for a moment he was too dizzy and bewildered to react. ‘we’ve got him!’ yelled the death eater nearest Harry_Potter. ‘in an office off––’ ‘silencio!’ cried Hermione_Granger and the man’s voice was extinguished. he continued to mouth through the hole in his mask, but no sound came out. he was thrust aside by his fellow death eater. ‘petrificus totalus!’ shouted Harry_Potter, as the second death eater raised his wand. his arms and legs snapped together and he fell forwards, face down on to the rug at Harry_Potter’s feet, stiff as a board and unable to move. ‘well done, ha––’ but the death eater Hermione_Granger had just struck dumb made a sudden slashing movement with his wand; a streak of what looked like purple flame passed right across Hermione_Granger’s chest. she gave a tiny ‘oh!’ as though of surprise and crumpled on to the floor, where she lay motionless. ‘Hermione_Granger!’ Harry_Potter fell to his knees beside her as Neville_Longbottom crawled rapidly towards her from under the desk, his wand held up in front of him. the death eater kicked out hard at Neville_Longbottom’s head as he emerged – his foot broke Neville_Longbottom’s wand in two and connected with his face. Neville_Longbottom gave a howl of pain and recoiled, clutching his mouth and nose. Harry_Potter twisted around, his own wand held high, and saw that the death eater had ripped off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at Harry_Potter, who recognised the long, pale, twisted face from the daily prophet: Antonin_Dolohov, the wizard who had murdered the prewetts. dolohov grinned. with his free hand, he pointed from the prophecy still clutched in Harry_Potter’s hand, to himself, then at Hermione_Granger. though he could no longer speak, his meaning could not have been clearer. give me the prophecy, or you get the same as her … ‘like you won’t kill us all anyway, the moment i hand it over!’ said Harry_Potter. a whine of panic inside his head was preventing him thinking properly: he had one hand on Hermione_Granger’s shoulder, which was still warm, yet did not dare look at her properly. don’t let her be dead, don’t let her be dead, it’s my fault if she’s dead … ‘whaddever you do, Harry_Potter,’ said Neville_Longbottom fiercely from under the desk, lowering his hands to show a clearly broken nose and blood pouring down his mouth and chin, ‘don’d gib it to him!’ then there was a crash outside the door and dolohov looked over his shoulder – the baby-headed death eater had appeared in the doorway, his head bawling, his great fists still flailing uncontrollably at everything around him. Harry_Potter seized his chance: ‘petrificus totalus!’ the spell hit dolohov before he could block it and he toppled forwards across his comrade, both of them rigid as boards and unable to move an inch. ‘Hermione_Granger,’ Harry_Potter said at once, shaking her as the baby-headed death eater blundered out of sight again. ‘Hermione_Granger, wake up …’ ‘whaddid he do to her?’ said Neville_Longbottom, crawling out from under the desk to kneel at her other side, blood streaming from his rapidly swelling nose. ‘i dunno …’ Neville_Longbottom groped for Hermione_Granger’s wrist. ‘dat’s a pulse, Harry_Potter, i’b sure id is.’ such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry_Potter that for a moment he felt light-headed. ‘she’s alive?’ ‘yeah, i dink so.’ there was a pause in which Harry_Potter listened hard for the sound of more footsteps, but all he could hear were the whimpers and blunderings of the baby-headed death eater in the next room. ‘Neville_Longbottom, we’re not far from the exit,’ Harry_Potter whispered, ‘we’re right next to that circular room … if we can just get you across it and find the right door before any more death eaters come, i’ll bet you can get Hermione_Granger up the corridor and into the lift … then you could find someone … raise the alarm …’ ‘and whad are you going do do?’ said Neville_Longbottom, mopping his bleeding nose with his sleeve and frowning at Harry_Potter. ‘i’ve got to find the others,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, i’b going do find dem wid you,’ said Neville_Longbottom firmly. ‘but Hermione_Granger –’ ‘we’ll dake her wid us,’ said Neville_Longbottom firmly. ‘i’ll carry her – you’re bedder at fighding dem dan i Aberforth_Dumbledore –’ he stood up and seized one of Hermione_Granger’s arms, glaring at Harry_Potter, who hesitated, then grabbed the other and helped hoist Hermione_Granger’s limp form over Neville_Longbottom’s shoulders. ‘wait,’ said Harry_Potter, snatching up Hermione_Granger’s wand from the floor and shoving it into Neville_Longbottom’s hand, ‘you’d better take this.’ Neville_Longbottom kicked aside the broken fragments of his own wand as they walked slowly towards the door. ‘my gran’s going do kill be,’ said Neville_Longbottom thickly, blood spattering from his nose as he spoke, ‘dat was by dad’s old wand.’ Harry_Potter stuck his head out of the door and looked around cautiously. the baby-headed death eater was screaming and banging into things, toppling grandfather clocks and overturning desks, bawling and confused, while the glass-fronted cabinet that Harry_Potter now suspected had contained time-turners continued to fall, shatter and repair itself on the wall behind them. ‘he’s never going to notice us,’ he whispered. ‘c’mon … keep close behind me …’ they crept out of the office and back towards the door into the black hallway, which now seemed completely deserted. they walked a few steps forwards, Neville_Longbottom tottering slightly due to Hermione_Granger’s weight; the door of the time room swung shut behind them and the walls began to rotate once more. the recent blow on the back of Harry_Potter’s head seemed to have unsteadied him; he narrowed his eyes, swaying slightly, until the walls stopped moving again. with a sinking heart, Harry_Potter saw that Hermione_Granger’s fiery crosses had faded from the doors. ‘so which way d’you reck––?’ but before they could make a decision as to which way to try, a door to their right sprang open and three people fell out of it. ‘ron!’ croaked Harry_Potter, dashing towards them. ‘Ginevra_Weasley – are you all –?’ ‘Harry_Potter,’ said Ronald_Weasley giggling weakly, lurching forwards, seizing the front of Harry_Potter’s robes and gazing at him with unfocused eyes, ‘there you are … ha ha ha … you look funny, Harry_Potter … you’re all messed up …’ ron’s face was very white and something dark was trickling from the corner of his mouth. next moment his knees had given way, but he still clutched the front of Harry_Potter’s robes, so that Harry_Potter was pulled into a kind of bow. ‘Ginevra_Weasley?’ Harry_Potter said fearfully. ‘what happened?’ but Ginevra_Weasley shook her head and slid down the wall into a sitting position, panting and holding her ankle. ‘i think her ankle’s broken, i heard something crack,’ whispered Luna_Lovegood, who was bending over her and who alone seemed to be unhurt. ‘four of them chased us into a dark room full of planets; it was a very odd place, some of the time we were just floating in the dark –’ ‘Harry_Potter, we saw uranus up close!’ said Ronald_Weasley still giggling feebly. ‘get it, Harry_Potter? we saw uranus – ha ha ha –’ a bubble of blood grew at the corner of ron’s mouth and burst. ‘– anyway, one of them grabbed Ginevra_Weasley’s foot, i used the reductor curse and blew up pluto in his face, but …’ Luna_Lovegood gestured Hope_Howelllessly at Ginevra_Weasley, who was breathing in a very shallow way, her eyes still closed. ‘and what about Ronald_Weasley’ said Harry_Potter fearfully, as Ronald_Weasley continued to giggle, still hanging off the front of Harry_Potter’s robes. ‘i don’t know what they hit him with,’ said Luna_Lovegood sadly, ‘but he’s gone a bit funny, i could hardly get him along at all.’ ‘Harry_Potter,’ said Ronald_Weasley pulling Harry_Potter’s ear down to his mouth and still giggling weakly, ‘you know who this girl is, Harry_Potter? she’s loony … Luna_Lovegood … ha ha ha …’ ‘we’ve got to get out of here,’ said Harry_Potter firmly. ‘Luna_Lovegood, can you help Ginevra_Weasley?’ ‘yes,’ said Luna_Lovegood, sticking her wand behind her ear for safekeeping, then putting an arm around Ginevra_Weasley’s waist and pulling her up. ‘it’s only my ankle, i can do it myself!’ said Ginevra_Weasley impatiently, but next moment she had collapsed sideways and grabbed Luna_Lovegood for support. Harry_Potter pulled ron’s arm over his shoulder just as, so many months ago, he had pulled Dudley_Dursley’s. he looked around: they had a one in twelve chance of getting the exit right first time – he heaved Ronald_Weasley towards a door; they were within a few feet of it when another door across the hall burst open and three death eaters sped in, led by Bellatrix_Lestrange. ‘there they are!’ she shrieked. stunning spells shot across the room: Harry_Potter smashed his way through the door ahead, flung Ronald_Weasley unceremoniously from him and ducked back to help Neville_Longbottom in with Hermione_Granger: they were all over the threshold just in time to slam the door against Bellatrix_Lestrange. ‘colloportus!’ shouted Harry_Potter, and he heard three bodies slam into the door on the other side. ‘it doesn’t matter!’ said a man’s voice. ‘there are other ways in – we’ve got them, they’re here!’ Harry_Potter spun round; they were back in the brain room and, sure enough, there were doors all around the walls. he could hear footsteps in the hall behind them as more death eaters came running to join the first. ‘Luna_Lovegood – Neville_Longbottom – help me!’ the three of them tore around the room, sealing the doors as they went; Harry_Potter crashed into a table and rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next door: ‘colloportus!’ there were footsteps running along behind the doors, every now and then another heavy body would launch itself against one, so it creaked and shuddered; Luna_Lovegood and Neville_Longbottom were bewitching the doors along the opposite wall – then, as Harry_Potter reached the very top of the room, he heard Luna_Lovegood cry: ‘collo— aaaaaaaaargh …’ he turned in time to see her flying through the air; five death eaters were surging into the room through the door she had not reached in time; Luna_Lovegood hit a desk, slid over its surface and on to the floor on the other side where she lay sprawled, as still as Hermione_Granger. ‘get potter!’ shrieked Bellatrix_Lestrange, and she ran at him; he dodged her and sprinted back up the room; he was safe as long as they thought they might hit the prophecy – ‘hey!’ said Ronald_Weasley who had staggered to his feet and was now tottering drunkenly towards Harry_Potter, giggling. ‘hey, Harry_Potter, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn’t that weird, Harry_Potter?’ ‘ron, get out of the way, get down –’ but Ronald_Weasley had already pointed his wand at the tank. ‘honest, Harry_Potter, they’re brains – look – accio brain!’ the scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry_Potter, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom and each of the death eaters turned in spite of themselves to watch the top of the tank as a brain burst from the green liquid like a leaping fish: for a moment it seemed suspended in midair, then it soared towards Ronald_Weasley spinning as it came, and what looked like ribbons of moving images flew from it, unravelling like rolls of film – ‘ha ha ha, Harry_Potter, look at it –’ said Ronald_Weasley watching it disgorge its gaudy innards, ‘Harry_Potter, come and touch it; bet it’s weird –’ ‘ron, no!’ Harry_Potter did not know what would happen if Ronald_Weasley touched the tentacles of thought now flying behind the brain, but he was sure it would not be anything good. he darted forwards but Ronald_Weasley had already caught the brain in his outstretched hands. the moment they made contact with his skin, the tentacles began wrapping themselves around ron’s arms like ropes. ‘Harry_Potter, look what’s happen–– no – no – i don’t like it – no, stop – stop –’ but the thin ribbons were spinning around ron’s chest now; he tugged and tore at them as the brain was pulled tight against him like an octopus’s body. ‘diffindo!’ yelled Harry_Potter, trying to sever the feelers wrapping themselves tightly around Ronald_Weasley before his eyes, but they would not break. Ronald_Weasley fell over, still thrashing against his bonds. ‘Harry_Potter, it’ll suffocate him!’ screamed Ginevra_Weasley, immobilised by her broken ankle on the floor – then a jet of red light flew from one of the death eater’s wands and hit her squarely in the face. she keeled over sideways and lay there unconscious. ‘stubefy!’ shouted Neville_Longbottom, wheeling around and waving Hermione_Granger’s wand at the oncoming death eaters, ‘stubefy, stubefy!’ but nothing happened. one of the death eaters shot their own stunning spell at Neville_Longbottom; it missed him by inches. Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom were now the only two left fighting the five death eaters, two of whom sent off streams of silver light like arrows which missed but left craters in the wall behind them. Harry_Potter ran for it as Bellatrix_Lestrange raCedric_Diggory right at him: holding the prophecy high above his head, he sprinted back up the room; all he could think of doing was to draw the death eaters away from the others. it seemed to have worked; they streaked after him, knocking chairs and tables flying but not daring to bewitch him in case they hurt the prophecy, and he dashed through the only door still open, the one through which the death eaters themselves had come; inwardly praying that Neville_Longbottom would stay with Ronald_Weasley and find some way of releasing him. he ran a few feet into the new room and felt the floor vanish – he was falling down steep stone step after steep stone step, bouncing on every tier until at last, with a crash that knocked all the breath out of his body, he landed flat on his back in the sunken pit where the stone archway stood on its dais. the whole room was ringing with the death eaters’ laughter: he looked up and saw the five who had been in the brain room descending towards him, while as many more emerged through other doorways and began leaping from bench to bench towards him. Harry_Potter got to his feet though his legs were trembling so badly they barely supported him: the prophecy was still miraculously unbroken in his left hand, his wand clutched tightly in his right. he backed away, looking around, trying to keep all the death eaters within his sight. the back of his legs hit something solid: he had reached the dais where the archway stood. he climbed backwards on to it. the death eaters all halted, gazing at him. some were panting as hard as he was. one was bleeding badly; dolohov, freed of the body-bind curse, was leering, his wand pointing straight at Harry_Potter’s face. ‘potter, your race is run,’ drawled Lucius_Malfoy, pulling off his mask, ‘now hand me the prophecy like a good boy.’ ‘let – let the others go, and i’ll give it to you!’ said Harry_Potter desperately. a few of the death eaters laughed. ‘you are not in a position to bargain, potter,’ said Lucius_Malfoy, his pale face flushed with pleasure. ‘you see, there are ten of us and only one of you … or hasn’t Albus_Dumbledore ever taught you how to count?’ ‘he’s Dot alone!’ shouted a voice from above them. ‘he’s still god be!’ Harry_Potter’s heart sank: Neville_Longbottom was scrambling down the stone benches towards them, Hermione_Granger’s wand held fast in his trembling hand. ‘Neville_Longbottom – no – go back to Ronald_Weasley –’ ‘stubefy!’ Neville_Longbottom shouted again, pointing his wand at each death eater in turn. ‘stubefy! stube––’ one of the largest death eaters seized Neville_Longbottom from behind, pinioning his arms to his sides. he struggled and kicked; several of the death eaters laughed. ‘it’s longbottom,  ‘well, your grandmother is used to losing family members to our cause … your death will not come as a great shock.’ it?’ sneered Lucius_Malfoy.  isn’t  ‘longbottom?’ repeated Bellatrix_Lestrange, and a truly evil smile lit her gaunt face. ‘why, i have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy.’ ‘i doe you hab!’ roared Neville_Longbottom, and he fought so hard against his captor’s encircling grip that the death eater shouted, ‘someone stun him!’ ‘no, no, no,’ said Bellatrix_Lestrange. she looked transported, alive with excitement as she glanCedric_Diggory at Harry_Potter, then back at Neville_Longbottom. ‘no, let’s see how long longbottom lasts before he cracks like his parents … unless potter wants to give us the prophecy.’ ‘don’d gib id do dem!’ roared Neville_Longbottom, who seemed beside himself, kicking and writhing as Bellatrix_Lestrange drew nearer to him and his captor, her wand raised. ‘don’d gib id do dem, Harry_Potter!’ Bellatrix_Lestrange raised her wand. ‘crucio!’ Neville_Longbottom screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so that the death eater holding him was momentarily holding him off the ground. the death eater dropped him and he fell to the floor, twitching and screaming in agony. ‘that was just a taster!’ said Bellatrix_Lestrange, raising her wand so that Neville_Longbottom’s screams stopped and he lay sobbing at her feet. she turned and gazed up at Harry_Potter. ‘now, potter, either give us the prophecy, or watch your little friend die the hard way!’ Harry_Potter did not have to think; there was no choice. the prophecy was hot with the heat of his clutching hand as he held it out. malfoy jumped forwards to take it. then, high above them, two more doors burst open and five more people sprinted into the room: Sirius_Black, lupin, moody, Nymphadora_Tonks and Kingsley_Shacklebolt. malfoy turned, and raised his wand, but Nymphadora_Tonks had already sent a stunning spell right at him. Harry_Potter did not wait to see whether it had made contact, but dived off the dais out of the way. the death eaters were completely distracted by the appearance of the members of the order, who were now raining spells down upon them as they jumped from step to step towards the sunken floor. through the darting bodies, the flashes of light, Harry_Potter could see Neville_Longbottom crawling along. he dodged another jet of red light and flung himself flat on the ground to reach Neville_Longbottom. ‘are you ok?’ he yelled, as another spell soared inches over their heads. ‘yes,’ said Neville_Longbottom, trying to pull himself up. ‘and Ronald_Weasley’ ‘i dink he’s all righd – he was still fighding de brain when i lefd –’ the stone floor between them exploded as a spell hit it, leaving a crater right where Neville_Longbottom’s hand had been only seconds before; both scrambled away from the spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere, seized Harry_Potter around the neck and pulled him upright, so that his toes were barely touching the floor. ‘give it to me,’ growled a voice in his ear, ‘give me the prophecy –’ the man was pressing so tightly on Harry_Potter’s windpipe that he could not breathe. through watering eyes he saw Sirius_Black duelling with a death eater some ten feet away; Kingsley_Shacklebolt was fighting two at once; Nymphadora_Tonks, still halfway up the tiered seats, was firing spells down at Bellatrix_Lestrange – nobody seemed to realise that Harry_Potter was dying. he turned his wand backwards towards the man’s side, but had no breath to utter an incantation, and the man’s free hand was groping towards the hand in which Harry_Potter was grasping the prophecy – ‘aargh!’ Neville_Longbottom had come lunging out of nowhere; unable to articulate a spell, he had jabbed Hermione_Granger’s wand hard into the eyehole of the death eater’s mask. the man relinquished Harry_Potter at once with a howl of pain. Harry_Potter whirled around to face him and gasped: ‘stupefy!’ the death eater keeled over backwards and his mask slipped off: it was macnair, Buckbeak’s would-be killer, one of his eyes now swollen and bloodshot. ‘thanks!’ Harry_Potter said to Neville_Longbottom, pulling him aside as Sirius_Black and his death eater lurched past, duelling so fiercely that their wands were blurs; then Harry_Potter’s foot made contact with something round and hard and he slipped. for a moment he thought he had dropped the prophecy, but then he saw moody’s magical eye spinning away across the floor. its owner was lying on his side, bleeding from the head, and his attacker was now bearing down upon Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom: dolohov, his long pale face twisted with glee. ‘tarantallegra!’ he shouted, his wand pointing at Neville_Longbottom, whose legs went immediately into a kind of frenzied tap-dance, unbalancing him and causing him to fall to the floor again. ‘now, potter –’ he made the same slashing movement with his wand that he had used on Hermione_Granger just as Harry_Potter yelled, ‘protego!’ Harry_Potter felt something streak across his face like a blunt knife; the force of it knocked him sideways and he fell over Neville_Longbottom’s jerking legs, but the shield charm had stopped the worst of the spell. dolohov raised his wand again. ‘accio proph––’ Sirius_Black had hurtled out of nowhere, rammed dolohov with his shoulder and sent him flying out of the way. the prophecy had again flown to the tips of Harry_Potter’s fingers but he had managed to cling on to it. now Sirius_Black and dolohov were duelling, their wands flashing like swords, sparks flying from their wand-tips – dolohov drew back his wand to make the same slashing movement he had used on Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger. springing up, Harry_Potter yelled, ‘petrificus totalus!’ once again, dolohov’s arms and legs snapped together and he keeled over backwards, landing with a crash on his back. ‘nice one!’ shouted Sirius_Black, forcing Harry_Potter’s head down as a pair of stunning spells flew towards them. ‘now i want you to get out of –’ they both ducked again; a jet of green light had narrowly missed Sirius_Black. across the room Harry_Potter saw Nymphadora_Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp form toppling from stone seat to stone seat and Bellatrix_Lestrange, triumphant, running back towards the fray. ‘Harry_Potter, take the prophecy, grab Neville_Longbottom and run!’ Sirius_Black yelled, dashing to meet Bellatrix_Lestrange. Harry_Potter did not see what happened next: Kingsley_Shacklebolt swayed across his field of vision, battling with the pockmarked and no longer masked rookwood; another jet of green light flew over Harry_Potter’s head as he launched himself towards Neville_Longbottom – ‘can you stand?’ he bellowed in Neville_Longbottom’s ear, as Neville_Longbottom’s legs jerked and twitched uncontrollably. ‘put your arm round my neck –’ Neville_Longbottom did so – Harry_Potter heaved – Neville_Longbottom’s legs were still flying in every direction, they would not support him, and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them: both fell backwards, Neville_Longbottom’s legs waving wildly like an overturned beetle’s, Harry_Potter with his left arm held up in the air to try to save the small glass ball from being smashed. ‘the prophecy, give me the prophecy, potter!’ snarled Lucius_Malfoy’s voice in his ear, and Harry_Potter felt the tip of malfoy’s wand pressing hard between his ribs. ‘no – get – off – me … Neville_Longbottom – catch it!’ Harry_Potter flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville_Longbottom spun himself around on his back and scooped the ball to his chest. malfoy pointed the wand instead at Neville_Longbottom, but Harry_Potter jabbed his own wand back over his shoulder and yelled, ‘impedimenta!’ malfoy was blasted off his back. as Harry_Potter scrambled up again he looked around and saw malfoy smash into the dais on which Sirius_Black and Bellatrix_Lestrange were now duelling. malfoy aimed his wand at Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom again, but before he could draw breath to strike, lupin had jumped between them. ‘Harry_Potter, round up the others and go!’ Harry_Potter seized Neville_Longbottom by the shoulder of his robes and lifted him bodily on to the first tier of stone steps; Neville_Longbottom’s legs twitched and jerked and would not support his weight; Harry_Potter heaved again with all the strength he possessed and they climbed another step – a spell hit the stone bench at Harry_Potter’s heel; it crumbled away and he fell back to the step below. Neville_Longbottom sank on to the bench above, his legs still jerking and thrashing, and he thrust the prophecy into his pocket. ‘come on!’ said Harry_Potter desperately, hauling at Neville_Longbottom’s robes. ‘just try and push with your legs –’ he gave another stupendous heave and Neville_Longbottom’s robes tore all along the left seam – the small spun-glass ball dropped from his pocket and, before either of them could catch it, one of Neville_Longbottom’s floundering feet kicked it: it flew some ten feet to their right and smashed on the step beneath them. as both of them stared at the place where it had broken, appalled at what had happened, a pearly-white figure with hugely magnified eyes Rose_Zeller into the air, unnotiCedric_Diggory by any but them. Harry_Potter could see its mouth moving, but in all the crashes and screams and yells surrounding them, not one word of the prophecy could he hear. the figure stopped speaking and dissolved into nothingness. ‘Harry_Potter, i’b sorry!’ cried Neville_Longbottom, his face anguished as his legs continued to flounder. ‘i’b so sorry, Harry_Potter, i didn’d bean do –’ ‘it doesn’t matter!’ Harry_Potter shouted. ‘just try and stand, let’s get out of –’ ‘dubbledore!’ said Neville_Longbottom, his sweaty face suddenly transported, staring over Harry_Potter’s shoulder. ‘what?’ ‘dubbledore!’ Harry_Potter turned to look where Neville_Longbottom was staring. directly above them, framed in the doorway from the brain room, stood Albus_Dumbledore, his wand aloft, his face white and furious. Harry_Potter felt a kind of electric charge surge through every particle of his body – they were saved. Albus_Dumbledore had already sped past Neville_Longbottom and Harry_Potter, who had no more thoughts of leaving, when the death eaters nearest realised Albus_Dumbledore was there and yelled to the others. one of the death eaters ran for it, scrabbling like a monkey up the stone steps opposite. Albus_Dumbledore’s spell pulled him back as easily and effortlessly as though he had hooked him with an invisible line – only one pair was still battling, apparently unaware of the new arrival. Harry_Potter saw Sirius_Black duck Bellatrix_Lestrange’s jet of red light: he was laughing at her. ‘come on, you can do better than that!’ he yelled, his voice echoing around the cavernous room. the second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest. the laughter had not quite died from his face, but his eyes widened in shock. Harry_Potter released Neville_Longbottom, though he was unaware of doing so. he jumped to the ground, pulling out his wand, as Albus_Dumbledore, too, turned towards the dais. it seemed to take Sirius_Black an age to fall: his body curved in a graceful arc as he sank backwards through the ragged veil hanging from the arch. Harry_Potter saw the look of mingled fear and surprise on his godfather’s wasted, once-handsome face as he fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared behind the veil, which fluttered for a moment as though in a high wind, then fell back into place. Harry_Potter heard Bellatrix_Lestrange’s triumphant scream, but knew it meant nothing – Sirius_Black had only just fallen through the archway, he would reappear from the other side any second … but Sirius_Black did not reappear. ‘Sirius_Black!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘Sirius_Black!’ Harry_Potter’s breath was coming in searing gasps. Sirius_Black must be just behind the curtain, he, Harry_Potter, would pull him back out … but as he sprinted towards the dais, lupin grabbed Harry_Potter around the chest, holding him back. ‘there’s nothing you can do, Harry_Potter –’ ‘get him, save him, he’s only just gone through!’ ‘– it’s too late, Harry_Potter.’ ‘we can still reach him –’ Harry_Potter struggled hard and viciously, but lupin would not let go … ‘there’s nothing you can do, Harry_Potter … nothing … he’s gone.’ 