— chapter twenty — Rubeus_Hagrid’s tale Harry_Potter sprinted up to the boys’ dormitories to fetch the invisibility cloak and the marauder’s map from his trunk; he was so quick that he andRonald_Weasleywere ready to leave at least five minutes before Hermione_Granger hurried back down from the girls’ dormitories, wearing scarf, gloves and one of her own knobblyWinkyhats. ‘well, it’s cold out there!’ she said defensively, asRonald_Weasleyclicked his tongue impatiently. they crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves hastily in the cloak –Ronald_Weasleyhad grown so much he now needed to crouch to prevent his feet showing – then, moving slowly and cautiously, they proceeded down the many staircases, pausing at intervals to check on the map for signs of filch or Mrs_Norris. they were lucky; they saw nobody but Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, who was gliding along absent-mindedly humming something that sounded horribly like ‘weasley is our king’. they crept across the entrance hall and out into the silent, snowy grounds. with a great leap of his heart, Harry_Potter saw little golden squares of light ahead and smoke coiling up from Rubeus_Hagrid’s chimney. he set off at a quick march, the other two jostling and bumping along behind him. they crunched excitedly through the thickening snow until at last they reached the wooden front door. when Harry_Potter raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog started barking frantically inside. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, it’s us!’ Harry_Potter called through the keyhole. ‘shoulda known!’ said a gruff voice. they beamed at each other under the cloak; they could tell by Rubeus_Hagrid’s voice that he was pleased. ‘bin home three seconds … out the way, Fang … out the way, yeh dozy dog …’ the bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open and Rubeus_Hagrid’s head appeared in the gap. Hermione_Granger screamed. ‘merlin’s beard, keep it down!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid hastily, staring wildly over their heads. ‘under that cloak, are yeh? well, get in, get in!’    ‘i’m sorry!’ Hermione_Granger gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Rubeus_Hagrid into the house and pulled the cloak off themselves so he could see them. ‘i just – oh, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ ‘it’s nuthin’, it’s nuthin’!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid hastily, shutting the door behind them and hurrying to close all the curtains, but Hermione_Granger continued to gaze up at him in horror. Rubeus_Hagrid’s hair was matted with congealed blood and his left eye had been reduced to a puffy slit amid a mass of purple and black bruising. there were many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleeding, and he was moving gingerly, which made Harry_Potter suspect broken ribs. it was obvious that he had only just got home; a thick black travelling cloak lay over the back of a chair and a haversack large enough to carry several small children leaned against the wall inside the door. Rubeus_Hagrid himself, twice the size of a normal man, was now limping over to the fire and placing a copper kettle over it. ‘what happened to you?’ Harry_Potter demanded, while Fang danced around them all, trying to lick their faces. ‘told yeh, nuthin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid firmly. ‘want a cuppa?’ ‘come off it,’ said ron, ‘you’re in a right state!’ ‘i’m tellin’ yeh, i’m fine,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, straightening up and turning to beam at them all, but wincing. ‘blimey, it’s good ter see yeh three again – had good summers, did yeh?’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, you’ve been attacked!’ said ron. ‘fer the las’ time, it’s nuthin’!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid firmly. ‘would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound of mince instead of a face?’Ronald_Weasleydemanded. ‘you ought to go and see madam pomfrey, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously, ‘some of those cuts look nasty.’ ‘i’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid repressively. he walked across to the enormous wooden table that stood in the middle of his cabin and twitched aside a tea towel that had been lying on it. underneath was a raw, Bloody_Baron, green-tinged steak slightly larger than the average car tyre. ‘you’re not going to eat that, are you, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said ron, leaning in for a closer look. ‘it looks poisonous.’ ‘it’s s’posed ter look like that, it’s dragon meat,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said. ‘an’ i didn’ get it ter eat.’ he picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face. greenish blood trickled down into his beard as he gave a soft moan of satisfaction. ‘tha’s better. it helps with the stingin’, yeh know.’ ‘so, are you going to tell us what’s happened to you?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘can’t, Harry_Potter. top secret. more’n me job’s worth ter tell yeh that.’ ‘did the giants beat you up, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ asked Hermione_Granger quietly. Rubeus_Hagrid’s fingers slipped on the dragon steak and it slid squelchily on to his chest. ‘giants?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt and slapping it back over his face, ‘who said anythin’ abou’ giants? who yeh bin talkin’ to? who’s told yeh what i’ve – who’s said i’ve bin – eh?’ ‘we guessed,’ said Hermione_Granger apologetically. ‘oh, yeh did, did yeh?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, fixing her sternly with the eye that was not hidden by the steak. ‘it was kind of … obvious,’ said ron. Harry_Potter nodded. Rubeus_Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak back on to the table and strode over to the kettle, which was now whistling. ‘never known kids like you three fer knowin’ more’n yeh oughta,’ he muttered, splashing boiling water into three of his bucket-shaped mugs. ‘an’ i’m not complimentin’ yeh, neither. nosy, some’d call it. interferin’.’ but his beard twitched. ‘so you have been to look for giants?’ said Harry_Potter, grinning as he sat down at the table. Rubeus_Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his steak again and slapped it back over his face. ‘yeah, all righ’,’ he grunted, ‘i have.’ ‘and you found them?’ said Hermione_Granger in a hushed voice. ‘well, they’re not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘pretty big, see.’ ‘where are they?’ said ron. ‘mountains,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid unhelpfully. ‘so why don’t muggles –?’ ‘they do,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid darkly. ‘on’y their deaths are always put down ter mountaineerin’ accidents, aren’ they?’ he adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the worst of the bruising. ‘come on, Rubeus_Hagrid, tell us what you’ve been up to!’ said ron. ‘tell us about being attacked by the giants and Harry_Potter can tell you about being attacked by the dementors –’ Rubeus_Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time; a large quantity of spit, tea and dragon blood was sprayed over the table as Rubeus_Hagrid coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft splat, on to the floor. ‘whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors?’ growled Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘didn’t you know?’ Hermione_Granger asked him, wide-eyed. ‘i don’ know anythin’ that’s bin happenin’ since i left. i was on a secret mission, wasn’ i, didn’ wan’ owls followin’ me all over the place – ruddy dementors! yeh’re not serious?’ ‘yeah, i am, they turned up in little whinging and attacked my cousin and me, and then the ministry of Magic_goblin expelled me –’ ‘what?’ ‘– and i had to go to a hearing and everything, but tell us about the giants first.’ ‘you were expelled?’ ‘tell us about your summer and i’ll tell you about mine.’ Rubeus_Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry_Potter looked right back, an expression of innocent determination on his face. ‘oh, all righ’,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said in a resigned voice. he bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of Fang’s mouth. ‘oh, Rubeus_Hagrid, don’t, it’s not hygien—’ Hermione_Granger began, but Rubeus_Hagrid had already slapped the meat back over his swollen eye. he took another fortifying gulp of tea, then said, ‘well, we set off righ’ after term ended –’ ‘madame maxime went with you, then?’ Hermione_Granger interjected. ‘yeah, tha’s righ’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on the few inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green steak. ‘yeah, it was jus’ the pair of us. an’ i’ll tell yeh this, she’s not afraid of roughin’ it, Olympe_Maxime. yeh know, she’s a fine, well-dressed woman, an’ knowin’ where we was goin’ i wondered ’ow she’d feel abou’ clamberin’ over boulders an’ sleepin’ in caves an’ tha’, bu’ she never complained once.’ ‘you knew where you were going?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘you knew where the giants were?’ ‘well, Albus_Dumbledore knew, an’ he told us,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘are they hidden?’ asked ron. ‘is it a secret, where they are?’ ‘not really,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. ‘it’s jus’ that mos’ wizards aren’ bothered where they are, ’s’long as it’s a good long way away. but where they are’s very difficult ter get ter, fer humans anyway, so we needed Albus_Dumbledore’s instructions. took us abou’ a month ter get there –’ ‘a month?’ said ron, as though he had never heard of a journey lasting such a ridiculously long time. ‘but – why couldn’t you just grab a portkey or something?’ there was an odd expression in Rubeus_Hagrid’s unobscured eye as he squinted at ron; it was almost pitying. ‘we’re bein’ watched, ron,’ he said gruffly. ‘what d’you mean?’ ‘yeh don’ underStanley_Shunpiked,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘the ministry’s keepin’ an eye on Albus_Dumbledore an’ anyone they reckon’s in league with ’im, an’ –’ ‘we know about that,’ said Harry_Potter quickly, keen to hear the rest of Rubeus_Hagrid’s story, ‘we know about the ministry watching Albus_Dumbledore –’ ‘so you couldn’t use Magic_goblin  to get  there?’ asked ron,  looking thunderstruck, ‘you had to act like muggles all the way?’ ‘well, not exactly all the way,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid cagily. ‘we jus’ had ter be careful, ’cause Olympe_Maxime an’ me, we stick out a bit –’Ronald_Weasleymade a stifled noise somewhere between a snort and a sniff and hastily took a gulp of tea. ‘– so we’re not hard ter follow. we was pretendin’ we was goin’ on holiday together, so we got inter france an’ we made like we was headin’ fer where Olympe_Maxime’s school is, ’cause we knew we was bein’ tailed by someone from the ministry. we had to go slow, ’cause i’m not really s’posed ter use Magic_goblin an’ we knew the ministry’d be lookin’ fer a reason ter run us in. but we managed ter give the berk tailin’ us the slip round abou’ dee-John_Dawlish –’ ‘ooooh, dijon?’ said Hermione_Granger excitedly. ‘i’ve been there on holiday, did you see –?’ she fell silent at the look on ron’s face. ‘we chanced a bit o’ Magic_goblin after that an’ it wasn’ a bad journey. ran inter a couple o’ mad trolls on the polish border an’ i had a sligh’ disagreement with a vampire in a pub in minsk, bu’ apart from tha’ couldn’t’a bin smoother. ‘an’ then we reached the place, an’ we started trekkin’ up through the mountains, lookin’ fer signs of ’em … ‘we had ter lay off the Magic_goblin once we got near ’em. partly ’cause they don’ like wizards an’ we didn’ want ter put their backs up too soon, an’ partly ’cause Albus_Dumbledore had warned us Tom_Riddle was bound ter be after the giants an’ all. said it was odds on he’d sent a messenger off ter them already. told us ter be very careful of drawin’ attention ter ourselves as we got nearer in case there was death eaters around.’ Rubeus_Hagrid paused for a long draught of tea. ‘go on!’ said Harry_Potter urgently. ‘found ’em,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid baldly. ‘went over a ridge one nigh’ an’ there they was, spread ou’ underneath us. little fires burnin’ below an’ huge shadows … it was like watchin’ bits o’ the mountain movin’.’ ‘how big are they?’ askedRonald_Weasleyin a hushed voice. ‘’bout twenty feet,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid casually. ‘some o’ the bigger ones mighta bin twenty-five.’ ‘and how many were there?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘i reckon abou’ seventy or eighty,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘is that all?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘yep,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid sadly, ‘eighty left, an’ there was loads once, musta bin a hundred diff’rent tribes from all over the world. bu’ they’ve bin dyin’ out fer ages. wizards killed a few, o’ course, bu’ mostly they killed each other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever. they’re not made ter live bunched up together like tha’. Albus_Dumbledore says it’s our fault, it was the wizards who forced ’em to go an’ made ’em live a good long way from us an’ they had no choice bu’ ter stick together fer their own protection.’ ‘so,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘you saw them and then what?’ ‘well, we waited till morning, didn’ want ter go sneakin’ up on ’em in the dark, fer our own safety,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘’bout three in the mornin’ they fell asleep jus’ where they was sittin’. we didn’ dare sleep. fer one thing, we wanted ter make sure none of ’em woke up an’ came up where we were, an’ fer another, the snorin’ was unbelievable. caused an avalanche near mornin’. ‘anyway, once it was light we wen’ down ter see ’em.’ ‘just like that?’ said ron, looking awestruck. ‘you just walked right into a giant camp?’ ‘well, Albus_Dumbledore’d told us how ter do it,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘give the gurg gifts, show some respect, yeh know.’ ‘give the what gifts?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘oh, the gurg – means the chief.’ ‘how could you tell which one was the gurg?’ asked ron. Rubeus_Hagrid grunted in amusement. ‘no problem,’ he said. ‘he was the biggest, the ugliest an’ the laziest. sittin’ there waitin’ ter be brought food by the others. dead goats an’ such like. name o’ karkus. i’d put him at twenty-two, twenty-three feet an’ the weight o’ a couple o’ bull elephants. skin like rhino hide an’ all.’ ‘and you just walked up to him?’ said Hermione_Granger breathlessly. ‘well … down ter him, where he was lyin’ in the valley. they was in this dip between four pretty high mountains, see, beside a mountain lake, an’ karkus was lyin’ by the lake roarin’ at the others ter feed him an’ his wife. Olympe_Maxime an’ i went down the mountainside –’ ‘but didn’t they try and kill you when they saw you?’ askedRonald_Weasleyincredulously. ‘it was def’nitely on some o’ their minds,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, shrugging, ‘but we did what Albus_Dumbledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an’ keep our eyes on the gurg an’ ignore the others. so tha’s what we did. an’ the rest of ’em went quiet an’ watched us pass an’ we got right up ter karkus’s feet an’ we bowed an’ put our present down in front o’ him.’ ‘what do you give a giant?’ askedRonald_Weasleyeagerly. ‘food?’ ‘nah, he can get food all righ’ fer himself,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘we took him Magic_goblin. giants like Magic_goblin, jus’ don’ like us usin’ it against ’em. anyway, that firs’ day we gave ’im a branch o’ gubraithian fire.’ Hermione_Granger said, ‘wow!’ softly, but Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyboth frowned in puzzlement. ‘a branch of –?’ ‘everlasting fire,’ said Hermione_Granger irRita_Skeeterbly, ‘you ought to know that by now. professor flitwick’s mentioned it at least twice in class!’ ‘well, anyway,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid quickly, intervening beforeRonald_Weasleycould answer back, ‘Albus_Dumbledore’d bewitched this branch to burn fer evermore, which isn’ somethin’ any wizard could do, an’ so i lies it down in the snow by karkus’s feet and says, “a gift to the gurg of the giants from Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore, who sends his respectful greetings.”’ ‘and what did karkus say?’ asked Harry_Potter eagerly. ‘nothin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘didn’ speak english.’ ‘you’re kidding!’ ‘didn’ matter,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid imperturbably, ‘Albus_Dumbledore had warned us tha’ migh’ happen. karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o’ giants who knew our lingo an’ they translated fer us.’ ‘and did he like the present?’ asked ron. ‘oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it was,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, turning his dragon steak over to press the cooler side to his swollen eye. ‘very pleased. so then i said, “Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore asks the gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns tomorrow with another gift.”’ ‘why couldn’t you speak to them that day?’ asked Hermione_Granger. ‘Albus_Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘let ’em see we kept our promises. we’ll come back tomorrow with another present, an’ then we do come back with another present – gives a good impression, see? an’ gives them time ter test out the firs’ present an’ find out it’s a good one, an’ get ’em eager fer more. in any case, giants like karkus – overload ’em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’ to simplify things. so we bowed outta the way an’ went off an’ found ourselves a nice little cave ter spend that night in an’ the followin’ mornin’ we went back an’ this time we found karkus sittin’ up waitin’ fer us lookin’ all eager.’ ‘and you talked to him?’ ‘oh yeah. firs’ we presented him with a nice battle helmet – goblin-made an’ indestructible, yeh know – an’ then we sat down an’ we talked.’ ‘what did he say?’ ‘not much,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘listened mostly. bu’ there were good signs. he’d heard o’ Albus_Dumbledore, heard he’d argued against the killin’ o’ the last giants in bRita_Skeeterin. karkus seemed ter be quite int’rested in what Albus_Dumbledore had ter say. an’ a few o’ the others, ’specially the ones who had some english, they gathered round an’ listened too. we were Hope_Howellful when we left that day. promised ter come back next mornin’ with another present. ‘bu’ that night it all wen’ wrong.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ saidRonald_Weasleyquickly. ‘well, like i say, they’re not meant ter live together, giants,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid sadly. ‘not in big groups like that. they can’ help themselves, they half kill each other every few weeks. the men fight each other an’ the women fight each other; the remnants of the old tribes fight each other, an’ that’s even without squabbles over food an’ the best fires an’ sleepin’ spots. yeh’d think, seein’ as how their whole race is abou’ finished, they’d lay off each other, bu’ …’ Rubeus_Hagrid sighed deeply. ‘that night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave, lookin’ down on the valley. went on fer hours, yeh wouldn’ believe the noise. an’ when the sun came up the snow was scarlet an’ his head was lyin’ at the bottom o’ the lake.’ ‘whose head?’ gasped Hermione_Granger. ‘karkus’s,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid heavily. ‘there was a new gurg, golgomath.’ he sighed deeply. ‘well, we hadn’ bargained on a new gurg two days after we’d made friendly contact with the firs’ one, an’ we had a funny feelin’ golgomath wouldn’ be so keen ter listen to us, bu’ we had ter try.’ ‘you went to speak to him?’ askedRonald_Weasleyincredulously. ‘after you’d watched him rip off another giant’s head?’ ‘course we did,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘we hadn’ gone all that way ter give up after two days! we wen’ down with the next present we’d meant ter give ter karkus. ‘i knew it was no go before i’d opened me mouth. he was sitting there wearin’ karkus’s helmet, leerin’ at us as we got nearer. he’s massive, one o’ the biggest ones there. black hair an’ matchin’ teeth an’ a necklace o’ bones. human-lookin’ bones, some of ’em. well, i gave it a go – held out a great roll o’ dragon skin – an’ said, “a gift fer the gurg of the giants –” nex’ thing i knew, i was hangin’ upsidedown in the air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.’ Hermione_Granger clapped her hands to her mouth. ‘how did you get out of that?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘wouldn’ta done if Olympe_Maxime hadn’ bin there,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘she pulled out her wand an’ did some o’ the fastes’ spellwork i’ve ever seen. ruddy marvellous. hit the two holdin’ me right in the eyes with conjunctivitus curses an’ they dropped me straightaway – bu’ we were in trouble then, ’cause we’d used Magic_goblin against ’em, an’ that’s what giants hate abou’ wizards. we had ter leg it an’ we knew there was no way we was going ter be able ter march inter the camp again.’ ‘blimey, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ saidRonald_Weasleyquietly. ‘so, how come it’s taken you so long to get home if you were only there for three days?’ asked Hermione_Granger. ‘we didn’ leave after three days!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking outraged. ‘Albus_Dumbledore was relyin’ on us!’ ‘but you’ve just said there was no way you could go back!’ ‘not by daylight we couldn’, no. we just had ter rethink a bit. spent a couple o’ days lyin’ low up in the cave an’ watchin’. an’ wha’ we saw wasn’ good.’ ‘did he rip off more heads?’ asked Hermione_Granger, sounding squeamish. ‘no,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘i wish he had.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ ‘i mean we soon found out he didn’ object ter all wizards – just us.’ ‘death eaters?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘yep,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid darkly. ‘couple of ’em were visitin’ him ev’ry day, bringin’ gifts ter the gurg, an’ he wasn’ dangling them upsidedown.’ ‘how d’you know they were death eaters?’ said ron. ‘because i recognised one of ’em,’ Rubeus_Hagrid growled. ‘macnair, remember him? bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? maniac, he is. likes killin’ as much as golgomath; no wonder they were gettin’ on so well.’ ‘so macnair’s persuaded the giants to join Tom_Riddle?’ said Hermione_Granger desperately. ‘hold yer hippogriffs, i haven’ finished me story yet!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid indignantly, who, considering he had not wanted to tell them anything in the first place, now seemed to be rather enjoying himself. ‘me an’ Olympe_Maxime talked it over an’ we agreed, jus’ ’cause the gurg looked like favourin’ you-know- who didn’ mean all of ’em would. we had ter try an’ persuade some o’ the others, the ones who hadn’ wanted golgomath as gurg.’ ‘how could you tell which ones they were?’ asked ron. ‘well, they were the ones bein’ beaten to a pulp, weren’ they?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid patiently. ‘the ones with any sense were keepin’ outta golgomath’s way, hidin’ out in caves roun’ the gully jus’ like we were. so we decided we’d go pokin’ round the caves by night an’ see if we couldn’ persuade a few o’ them.’ ‘you went poking around dark caves looking for giants?’ said ron, with awed respect in his voice. ‘well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘we were more concerned abou’ the death eaters. Albus_Dumbledore had told us before we wen’ not ter tangle with ’em if we could avoid it, an’ the trouble was they knew we was around – ’spect golgomath told ’em abou’ us. at night, when the giants were sleepin’ an’ we wanted ter be creepin’ inter the caves, macnair an’ the other one were sneakin’ round the mountains lookin’ fer us. i was hard put to stop Olympe_Maxime jumpin’ out at ’em,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, the corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard, ‘she was rarin’ ter attack ’em … she’s somethin’ when she’s roused, Olympe_Maxime … fiery, yeh know … ’spect it’s the french in her …’ Rubeus_Hagrid gazed misty-eyed into the fire. Harry_Potter allowed him thirty seconds of reminiscence before clearing his throat loudly. ‘so, what happened? did you ever get near any of the other giants?’ ‘what? oh … oh, yeah, we did. yeah, on the third night after karkus was killed we crept outta the cave we’d bin hidin’ in an’ headed back down inter the gully, keepin’ our eyes skinned fer the death eaters. got inside a few o’ the caves, no go – then, in abou’ the sixth one, we found three giants hidin’.’ ‘cave must’ve been cramped,’ said ron. ‘wasn’ room ter swing a kneazle,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘didn’t they attack you when they saw you?’ asked Hermione_Granger. ‘probably woulda done if they’d bin in any condition,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘but they was badly hurt, all three o’ them; golgomath’s lot had beaten ’em unconscious; they’d woken up an’ crawled inter the nearest shelter they could find. anyway, one o’ them had a bit of english an’ ’e translated fer the others, an’ what we had ter say didn’ seem ter go down too badly. so we kep’ goin’ back, visitin’ the wounded … i reckon we had abou’ six or seven o’ them convinced at one poin’.’ ‘six or seven?’ saidRonald_Weasleyeagerly. ‘well that’s not bad – are they going to come over here and start fighting Tom_Riddle with us?’ but Hermione_Granger said, ‘what do you mean “at one point”, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Rubeus_Hagrid looked at her sadly. ‘golgomath’s lot raided the caves. the ones tha’ survived didn’ wan’ no more ter to do with us after that.’ ‘so … so there aren’t any giants coming?’ said ron, looking disappointed. ‘nope,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak and applied the cooler side to his face, ‘but we did wha’ we meant ter do, we gave ’em Albus_Dumbledore’s message an’ some o’ them heard it an’ i ’spect some o’ them’ll remember it. jus’ maybe, them that don’ want ter stay around golgomath’ll move outta the mountains, an’ there’s gotta be a chance they’ll remember Albus_Dumbledore’s friendly to ’em … could be they’ll come.’ snow was filling up the window now. Harry_Potter became aware that the knees of his robes were soaked through: Fang was drooling with his head in Harry_Potter’s lap. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said Hermione_Granger quietly after a while. ‘mmm?’ ‘did you … was there any sign of … did you hear anything about your … your … mother while you were there?’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s unobscured eye rested upon her and Hermione_Granger looked rather scared. ‘i’m sorry … i … forget it –’ ‘dead,’ Rubeus_Hagrid grunted. ‘died years ago. they told me.’ ‘oh … i’m … i’m really sorry,’ said Hermione_Granger in a very small voice. Rubeus_Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders. ‘no need,’ he said shortly. ‘can’t remember her much. wasn’ a great mother.’ they were silent again. Hermione_Granger glanced nervously at Harry_Potter and ron, plainly wanting them to speak. ‘but you still haven’t explained how you got in this state, Rubeus_Hagrid,’Ronald_Weasleysaid, gesturing towards Rubeus_Hagrid’s bloodstained face. ‘or why you’re back so late,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Sirius_Black says madame maxime got back ages ago –’ ‘who attacked you?’ said ron. ‘i haven’ bin attacked!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid emphatically. ‘i –’ but the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden outbreak of rapping on the door. Hermione_Granger gasped; her mug slipped through her fingers and smashed on the floor; Fang yelped. all four of them stared at the window beside the doorway. the shadow of somebody small and squat rippled across the thin curtain. ‘it’s her!’Ronald_Weasleywhispered. ‘get under here!’ Harry_Potter said quickly; seizing the invisibility cloak, he whirled it over himself and Hermione_Granger whileRonald_Weasleytore around the table and dived under the cloak as well. huddled together, they backed away into a corner. Fang was barking madly at the door. Rubeus_Hagrid looked thoroughly confused. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, hide our mugs!’ Rubeus_Hagrid seized Harry_Potter and ron’s mugs and shoved them under the cushion in Fang’s basket. Fang was now leaping up at the door; Rubeus_Hagrid pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it open. professor umbridge was Stanley_Shunpikeding in the doorway wearing her green tweed cloak and a matching hat with earflaps. lips pursed, she leaned back so as to see Rubeus_Hagrid’s face; she barely reached his navel. ‘so,’ she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to somebody deaf. ‘you’re Rubeus_Hagrid, are you?’ without waiting for an answer she strolled into the room, her bulging eyes rolling in every direction. ‘get away,’ she snapped, waving her handbag at Fang, who had bounded up to her and was attempting to lick her face. ‘er – i don’ want ter be rude,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, staring at her, ‘but who the ruddy hell are you?’ ‘my name is Dolores_Umbridge umbridge.’ her eyes were sweeping the cabin. twice they stared directly into the corner where Harry_Potter stood, sandwiched betweenRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘Dolores_Umbridge umbridge?’ Rubeus_Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused. ‘i thought you were one o’ them ministry – don’ you work with fudge?’ ‘i was senior undersecretary to the minister, yes,’ said umbridge, now pacing around the cabin, taking in every tiny detail within, from the haversack against the wall to the abandoned travelling cloak. ‘i am now the defence against the dark arts teacher –’ ‘tha’s brave of yeh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘there’s not many’d take tha’ job any more.’ ‘– and hogwarts high inquisitor,’ said umbridge, giving no sign that she had heard him. ‘wha’s that?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, frowning. ‘precisely what i was going to ask,’ said umbridge, pointing at the broken shards of china on the floor that had been Hermione_Granger’s mug. ‘oh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance towards the corner where Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stood hidden, ‘oh, tha’ was … was Fang. he broke a mug. so i had ter use this one instead.’ Rubeus_Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been drinking, one hand still clamped over the dragon steak pressed to his eye. umbridge stood facing him now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead of the cabin’s. ‘i heard voices,’ she said quietly. ‘i was talkin’ ter Fang,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid stoutly. ‘and was he talking back to you?’ ‘well … in a manner o’ speakin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking uncomfortable. ‘i sometimes say Fang’s near enough human –’ ‘there are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the castle doors to your cabin,’ said umbridge sleekly. Hermione_Granger gasped; Harry_Potter clapped a hand over her mouth. luckily, Fang was sniffing loudly around the hem of professor umbridge’s robes and she did not appear to have heard. ‘well, i on’y jus’ got back,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, waving an enormous hand at the haversack. ‘maybe someone came ter call earlier an’ i missed ’em.’ ‘there are no footsteps leading away from your cabin door.’ ‘well, i … i don’ know why that’d be …’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, tugging nervously at his beard and again glancing towards the corner where Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stood, as though asking for help. ‘erm …’ umbridge wheeled round and strode the length of the cabin, looking around carefully. she bent and peered under the bed. she opened Rubeus_Hagrid’s cupboards. she passed within two inches of where Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stood pressed against the wall; Harry_Potter actually pulled in his stomach as she walked by. after looking carefully inside the enormous cauldron Rubeus_Hagrid used for Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning, she wheeled round again and said, ‘what has happened to you? how did you sustain those injuries?’ Rubeus_Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face, which in Harry_Potter’s opinion was a mistake, because the black and purple bruising all around his eye was now clearly visible, not to mention the large amount of fresh and congealed blood on his face. ‘oh, i … had a bit of an accident,’ he said lamely. ‘what sort of accident?’ ‘i – i tripped.’ ‘you tripped,’ she repeated coolly. ‘yeah, tha’s right. over … over a friend’s broomstick. i don’ fly, meself. well, look at the size o’ me, i don’ reckon there’s a broomstick that’d hold me. friend o’ mine breeds abraxan horses, i dunno if you’ve ever seen ’em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, i’ve had a bit of a ride on one o’ them an’ it was –’ ‘where have you been?’ asked umbridge, cutting coolly through Rubeus_Hagrid’s babbling. ‘where’ve i –?’ ‘been, yes,’ she said. ‘term started two months ago. another teacher has had to cover your classes. none of your colleagues has been able to give me any information as to your whereabouts. you left no address. where have you been?’ there was a pause in which Rubeus_Hagrid stared at her with his newly uncovered eye. Harry_Potter could almost hear his brain working furiously. ‘i – i’ve been away for me health,’ he said. ‘for your health,’ said professor umbridge. her eyes travelled over Rubeus_Hagrid’s discoloured and swollen face; dragon blood dripped gently and silently on to his waistcoat. ‘i see.’ ‘yeah,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘bit o’ – o’ fresh air, yeh know –’ ‘yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to come by,’ said umbridge sweetly. the small patch of Rubeus_Hagrid’s face that was not black or purple, flushed. ‘well – change o’ scene, yeh know –’ ‘mountain scenery?’ said umbridge swiftly. she knows, Harry_Potter thought desperately. ‘mountains?’ Rubeus_Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. ‘nope, south o’ france fer me. bit o’ sun an’ … an’ sea.’ ‘really?’ said umbridge. ‘you don’t have much of a tan.’ ‘yeah … well … sensitive skin,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, attempting an ingratiating smile. Harry_Potter noticed that two of his teeth had been knocked out. umbridge looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. then she hoisted her handbag a little higher into the crook of her arm and said, ‘i shall, of course, be informing the minister of your late return.’ ‘righ’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, nodding. ‘you ought to know, too, that as high inquisitor it is my unfortunate but necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. so i daresay we shall meet again soon enough.’ she turned sharply and marched back to the door. ‘you’re inspectin’ us?’ Rubeus_Hagrid echoed blankly, looking after her. ‘oh, yes,’ said umbridge softly, looking back at him with her hand on the door handle. ‘the ministry is determined to weed out unsatisfactory teachers, Rubeus_Hagrid. goodnight.’ she left, closing the door behind her with a snap. Harry_Potter made to pull off the invisibility cloak but Hermione_Granger seized his wrist. ‘not yet,’ she breathed in his ear. ‘she might not be gone yet.’ Rubeus_Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way; he stumped across the room and pulled back the curtain an inch or so. ‘she’s goin’ back ter the castle,’ he said in a low voice. ‘blimey … inspectin’ people, is she?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, pulling off the cloak. ‘trelawney’s on probation already …’ ‘um … what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ asked Hermione_Granger. ‘oh, don’ you worry abou’ that, i’ve got a great load o’ lessons planned,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak from the table and slapping it over his eye again. ‘i’ve bin keepin’ a couple o’ creatures saved fer yer o.w.l. year; you wait, they’re somethin’ really special.’ ‘erm … special in what way?’ asked Hermione_Granger tentatively. ‘i’m not sayin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid happily. ‘i don’ want ter spoil the surprise.’ ‘look, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger urgently, dropping all pretence, ‘professor umbridge won’t be at all happy if you bring anything to class that’s too dangerous.’ ‘dangerous?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking genially bemused. ‘don’ be silly, i wouldn’ give yeh anythin’ dangerous! i mean, all righ’, they can look after themselves –’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, you’ve got to pass umbridge’s inspection, and to do that it would really be better if she saw you teaching us how to look after porlocks, how to tell the difference between knarls and hedgehogs, stuff like that!’ said Hermione_Granger earnestly. ‘but tha’s not very interestin’, Hermione_Granger,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘the stuff i’ve got’s much more impressive. i’ve bin bringin’ ’em on fer years, i reckon i’ve got the on’y domestic herd in bRita_Skeeterin.’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid … please …’ said Hermione_Granger, a note of real desperation in her voice. ‘umbridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks are too close to Albus_Dumbledore. please, Rubeus_Hagrid, teach us something dull that’s bound to come up in our o.w.l.’ but Rubeus_Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one-eyed look of longing towards the vast bed in the corner. ‘lis’en, it’s bin a long day an’ it’s late,’ he said, patting Hermione_Granger gently on the shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. ‘oh – sorry –’ he pulled her back up by the neck of her robes. ‘look, don’ you go worryin’ abou’ me, i promise yeh i’ve got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons now i’m back … now you lot had better get back up to the castle, an’ don’ forget ter wipe yer footprints out behind yeh!’ ‘i dunno if you got through to him,’ saidRonald_Weasleya short while later when, having checked that the coast was clear, they walked back up to the castle through the thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them due to the obliteration charm Hermione_Granger was performing as they went. ‘then i’ll go back again tomorrow,’ said Hermione_Granger determinedly. ‘i’ll plan his lessons for him if i have to. i don’t care if she throws out trelawney but she’s not getting rid of Rubeus_Hagrid!’ 