— chapter fourteen — Percy_Weasley and Sirius_Black Harry_Potter was first to wake up in his dormitory next morning. he lay for a moment watching dust swirl in the ray of sunlight coming through the gap in his four-poster’s hangings, and savoured the thought that it was saturday. the first week of term seemed to have dragged on for ever, like one gigantic history of magic lesson. judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted look of that beam of sunlight, it was just after daybreak. he pulled open the curtains around his bed, got up and started to dress. the only sound apart from the distant twittering of birds was the slow, deep breathing of his fellow gryffindors. he opened his schoolbag carefully, pulled out parchment and quill and headed out of the dormitory for the common room. making straight for his favourite squashy old armchair beside the now extinct fire, Harry_Potter settled himself down comfortably and unrolled his parchment while looking around the room. the detritus of crumpled-up bits of parchment, old gobstones, empty ingredient jars and sweet wrappers that usually covered the common room at the end of each day was gone, as were all Hermione_Granger’s Winky hats. wondering vaguely how many elves had now been set free whether they wanted to be or not, Harry_Potter uncorked his ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, then held it suspended an inch above the smooth yellowish surface of his parchment, thinking hard … but after a minute or so he found himself staring into the empty grate, at a complete loss for what to say. he could now appreciate how hard it had been for Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to write him letters over the summer. how was he supposed to tell Sirius_Black everything that had happened over the past week and pose all the questions he was burning to ask without giving potential letter-thieves a lot of information he did not want them to have? he sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the fireplace, then, finally coming to a decision, he dipped his quill into the ink bottle once more and set it resolutely on the parchment.     dear Sirius_Black, Hope_Howell you’re ok, the first week back here’s been terrible, i’m really glad it’s the weekend. we’ve got a new defence against the dark arts teacher, professor umbridge. she’s nearly as nice as your mum. i’m writing because that thing i wrote to you about last summer happened again last night when i was doing a detention with umbridge. we’re all missing our biggest friend, we Hope_Howell he’ll be back soon. please write back quickly. best, Harry_Potter Harry_Potter reread the letter several times, trying to see it from the point of view of an outsider. he could not see how they would know what he was talking about – or who he was talking to – just from reading this letter. he did Hope_Howell Sirius_Black would pick up the hint about Rubeus_Hagrid and tell them when he might be back. Harry_Potter did not want to ask directly in case it drew too much attention to what Rubeus_Hagrid might be up to while he was not at hogwarts. considering it was a very short letter, it had taken a long time to write; sunlight had crept halfway across the room while he had been working on it and he could now hear distant sounds of movement from the dormitories above. sealing the parchment carefully, he climbed through the portrait hole and headed off for the owlery. ‘i would not go that way if i were you,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, drifting disconcertingly through a wall just ahead of Harry_Potter as he walked down the passage. ‘Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next person to pass the bust of paracelsus halfway down the corridor.’ ‘does it involve paracelsus falling on top of the person’s head?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘funnily enough, it does,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington in a bored voice. ‘subtlety has never been Peeves’s strong point. i’m off to try and find the Bloody_Baron … he might be able to put a stop to it … see you, Harry_Potter …’ ‘yeah, bye,’ said Harry_Potter and instead of turning right, he turned left, taking a longer but safer route up to the owlery. his spirits Rose_Zeller as he walked past window after window showing brilliantly blue sky; he had training later, he would be back on the quidditch pitch at last. something brushed his ankles. he looked down and saw the caretaker’s skeletal grey cat, Mrs_Norris, slinking past him. she turned lamplike yellow  eyes on him for a moment before disappearing behind a statue of wilFred_Weasley the wistful. ‘i’m not doing anything wrong,’ Harry_Potter called after her. she had the unmistakeable air of a cat that was off to report to her boss, yet Harry_Potter could not see why; he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the owlery on a saturday morning. the sun was high in the sky now and when Harry_Potter entered the owlery the glassless windows dazzled his eyes; thick silvery beams of sunlight criss- crossed the circular room in which hundreds of owls nestled on rafters, a little restless in the early-morning light, some clearly just returned from hunting. the straw-covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across tiny animal bones, craning his neck for a sight of Hedwig. ‘there you are,’ he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top of the vaulted ceiling. ‘get down here, i’ve got a letter for you.’ with a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared down on to his shoulder. ‘right, i know this says Sirius_Black on the outside,’ he told her, giving her the letter to clasp in her beak and, without knowing exactly why, whispering, ‘but it’s for Sirius_Black, ok?’ she blinked her amber eyes once and he took that to mean that she understood. ‘safe flight, then,’ said Harry_Potter and he carried her to one of the windows; with a moment’s pressure on his arm, Hedwig took off into the blindingly bright sky. he watched her until she became a tiny black speck and vanished, then switched his gaze to Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut, clearly visible from this window, and just as clearly uninhabited, the chimney smokeless, the curtains drawn. the treetops of the forbidden forest swayed in a light breeze. Harry_Potter watched them, savouring the fresh air on his face, thinking about quidditch later … then he saw it. a great, reptilian winged horse, just like the ones pulling the hogwarts carriages, with leathery black wings spread wide like a pterodactyl’s, Rose_Zeller up out of the trees like a grotesque, giant bird. it soared in a great circle, then plunged back into the trees. the whole thing had happened so quickly, Harry_Potter could hardly believe what he had seen, except that his heart was hammering madly. the owlery door opened behind him. he leapt in shock and, turning quickly, saw Cho_Chang holding a letter and a parcel in her hands. ‘hi,’ said Harry_Potter automatically. ‘oh … hi,’ she said breathlessly. ‘i didn’t think anyone would be up here this early … i only remembered five minutes ago, it’s my mum’s birthday.’ she held up the parcel. ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter. his brain seemed to have jammed. he wanted to say something funny and interesting, but the memory of that terrible winged horse was fresh in his mind. ‘nice day,’ he said, gesturing to the windows. his insides seemed to shrivel with embarrassment. the weather. he was talking about the weather … ‘yeah,’ said cho, looking around for a suitable owl. ‘good quidditch conditions. i haven’t been out all week, have you?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. Cho_Chang had selected one of the school barn owls. she coaxed it down on to her arm where it held out an obliging leg so that she could attach the parcel. ‘hey, has gryffindor got a new keeper yet?’ she asked. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘it’s my friend Ronald_Weasley weasley, d’you know him?’ ‘the tornados-hater?’ said Cho_Chang rather coolly. ‘is he any good?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i think so. i didn’t see his tryout, though, i was in detention.’ Cho_Chang looked up, the parcel only half-attached to the owl’s legs. ‘that umbridge woman’s foul,’ she said in a low voice. ‘putting you in detention just because you told the truth about how – how – how he died. everyone heard about it, it was all over the school. you were really brave standing up to her like that.’ Harry_Potter’s insides re-inflated so rapidly he felt as though he might actually float a few inches off the dropping-strewn floor. who cared about a stupid flying horse; Cho_Chang thought he had been really brave. for a moment, he considered accidentally-on-purpose showing her his cut hand as he helped her tie her parcel on to her owl … but the very instant this thrilling thought occurred, the owlery door opened again. filch the caretaker came wheezing into the room. there were purple patches on his sunken, veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin grey hair dishevelled; he had obviously run here. Mrs_Norris came trotting at his heels, gazing up at the owls overhead and mewing hungrily. there was a restless shifting of wings from above and a large brown owl snapped his beak in a menacing fashion. ‘aha!’ said filch, taking a flat-footed step towards Harry_Potter, his pouchy cheeks trembling with anger. ‘i’ve had a tip-off that you are intending to place a massive order for Mundungus_Fletcherbombs!’ Harry_Potter folded his arms and stared at the caretaker. ‘who told you i was ordering Mundungus_Fletcherbombs?’ Cho_Chang was looking from Harry_Potter to filch, also frowning; the barn owl on her arm, tired of standing on one leg, gave an admonitory hoot but she ignored it. ‘i have my sources,’ said filch in a self-satisfied hiss. ‘now hand over whatever it is you’re sending.’ feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled in posting off the letter, Harry_Potter said, ‘i can’t, it’s gone.’ ‘gone?’ said filch, his face contorting with rage. ‘gone,’ said Harry_Potter calmly. filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few seconds, then raked Harry_Potter’s robes with his eyes. ‘how do i know you haven’t got it in your pocket?’ ‘because –’ ‘i saw him send it,’ said Cho_Chang angrily. filch rounded on her. ‘you saw him –?’ ‘that’s right, i saw him,’ she said fiercely. there was a moment’s pause in which filch glared at Cho_Chang and Cho_Chang glared right back, then the caretaker turned and shuffled back towards the door. he stopped with his hand on the handle and looked back at Harry_Potter. ‘if i get so much as a whiff of a Mundungus_Fletcherbomb …’ he stumped off down the stairs. Mrs_Norris cast a last longing look at the owls and followed him. Harry_Potter and Cho_Chang looked at each other. ‘thanks,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘no problem,’ said cho, finally fixing the parcel to the barn owl’s other leg, her face slightly pink. ‘you weren’t ordering Mundungus_Fletcherbombs, were you?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i wonder why he thought you were, then?’ she said as she carried the owl to the window. Harry_Potter shrugged. he was quite as mystified by that as she was, though oddly it was not bothering him very much at the moment. they left the owlery together. at the entrance of a corridor that led towards the west wing of the castle, Cho_Chang said, ‘i’m going this way. well, i’ll … i’ll see you around, Harry_Potter.’ ‘yeah … see you.’ she smiled at him and departed. Harry_Potter walked on, feeling quietly elated. he had managed to have an entire conversation with her and not embarrassed himself once … you were really brave standing up to her like that … Cho_Chang had called him brave … she did not hate him for being alive … of course, she had preferred Cedric_Diggory, he knew that … though if he’d only asked her to the ball before Cedric_Diggory had, things might have turned out differently … she had seemed sincerely sorry that she’d had to refuse when Harry_Potter asked her … ‘morning,’ Harry_Potter said brightly to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger as he joined them at the gryffindor table in the great hall. ‘what are you looking so pleased about?’ said Ronald_Weasley eyeing Harry_Potter in surprise. ‘erm … quidditch later,’ said Harry_Potter happily, pulling a large platter of bacon and eggs towards him. ‘oh … yeah …’ said Ronald_Weasley he put down the piece of toast he was eating and took a large swig of pumpkin juice. then he said, ‘listen … you don’t fancy going out a bit earlier with me, do you? just to – er – give me some practice before training? so i can, you know, get my eye in a bit.’ ‘yeah, ok,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘look, i don’t think you should,’ said Hermione_Granger seriously. ‘you’re both really behind on homework as it –’ but she broke off; the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the daily prophet was soaring towards her in the beak of a screech owl, which landed perilously close to the sugar bowl and held out a leg. Hermione_Granger pushed a knut into its leather pouch, took the newspaper, and scanned the front page critically as the owl took off. ‘anything interesting?’ said Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter grinned, knowing Ronald_Weasley was keen to keep her off the subject of homework. ‘no,’ she sighed, ‘just some guff about the bass player in the Myron_Wagtail and Donaghan_Tremlett getting married.’ Hermione_Granger opened the paper and disappeared behind it. Harry_Potter devoted himself to another helping of eggs and bacon. Ronald_Weasley was staring up at the high windows, looking slightly preoccupied. ‘wait a moment,’ said Hermione_Granger suddenly. ‘oh no … Sirius_Black!’ ‘what’s happened?’ said Harry_Potter, snatching at the paper so violently it ripped down the middle, with him and Hermione_Granger each holding one half. ‘“the ministry of magic has received a tip-off from a reliable source that Sirius_Black, notorious mass murderer … blah blah blah … is currently hiding in london!”’ Hermione_Granger read from her half in an anguished whisper. ‘Lucius_Malfoy, i’ll bet anything,’ said Harry_Potter in a low, furious voice. ‘he did recognise Sirius_Black on the platform …’ ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley looking alarmed. ‘you didn’t say –’ ‘shh!’ said the other two. ‘… “ministry warns wizarding community that black is very dangerous … killed thirteen people … broke out of azkaban …” the usual rubbish,’ Hermione_Granger concluded, laying down her half of the paper and looking fearfully at Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ‘well, he just won’t be able to leave the house again, that’s all,’ she whispered. ‘Albus_Dumbledore did warn him not to.’ Harry_Potter looked down glumly at the bit of the prophet he had torn off. most of the page was devoted to an advertisement for madam Malkin’s robes for all occasions, which was apparently having a sale. ‘hey!’ he said, flattening it down so Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley could see it. ‘look at this!’ ‘i’ve got all the robes i want,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘look … this little piece here …’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger bent closer to read it; the item was barely an inch long and plaCedric_Diggory right at the bottom of a column. it was headlined: trespass at ministry Sturgis_Podmore, 38, of number two, laburnum gardens, clapham, has appeared in front of the wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted robbery at the ministry of magic on 31st august. podmore was arrested by ministry of magic watchwizard Eric_Munch, who found him attempting to force his way through a top-security door at one o’clock in the morning. podmore, who refused to speak in his own defence, was convicted on both charges and sentenCedric_Diggory to six months in azkaban. ‘Sturgis_Podmore?’ said Ronald_Weasley slowly. ‘he’s that bloke who looks like his head’s been thatched, isn’t he? he’s one of the ord—’ ‘ron, shh!’ said Hermione_Granger, casting a terrified look around them. ‘six months in azkaban!’ whispered Harry_Potter, shocked. ‘just for trying to get through a door!’   ‘don’t be silly, it wasn’t just for trying to get through a door. what on earth was he doing at the ministry of magic at one o’clock in the morning?’ breathed Hermione_Granger. ‘d’you reckon he was doing something for the order?’ Ronald_Weasley muttered. ‘wait a moment …’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘Sturgis_Podmore was supposed to come and see us off, remember?’ the other two looked at him. ‘yeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going to king’s cross, remember? and moody was all annoyed because he didn’t turn up; so he couldn’t have been on a job for them, could he?’ ‘well, maybe they didn’t expect him to get caught,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it could be a frame-up!’ Ronald_Weasley exclaimed excitedly. ‘no – listen!’ he went on, dropping his voice dramatically at the threatening look on Hermione_Granger’s face. ‘the ministry suspects he’s one of Albus_Dumbledore’s lot so – i dunno – they lured him to the ministry, and he wasn’t trying to get through a door at all! maybe they’ve just made something up to get him!’ there was a pause while Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger considered this. Harry_Potter thought it seemed far-fetched. Hermione_Granger, on the other hand, looked rather impressed. ‘do you know, i wouldn’t be at all surprised if that were true.’ she folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. as Harry_Potter laid down his knife and fork, she seemed to come out of a reverie. ‘right, well, i think we should tackle that essay for sprout on self- fertilising shrubs first and if we’re lucky we’ll be able to start Minerva_McGonagall’s inanimatus conjurus spell before lunch …’ Harry_Potter felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of homework awaiting him upstairs, but the sky was a clear, exhilarating blue, and he had not been on his firebolt all week … ‘i mean, we can do it tonight,’ said Ronald_Weasley as he and Harry_Potter walked down the sloping lawns towards the quidditch pitch, their broomsticks over their shoulders, and with Hermione_Granger’s dire warnings that they would fail all their o.w.l.s still ringing in their ears. ‘and we’ve got tomorrow. she gets too worked up about work, that’s her trouble …’ there was a pause and he added, in a slightly more anxious tone, ‘d’you think she meant it when she said we weren’t copying from her?’ ‘yeah, i do,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘still, this is important, too, we’ve got to practise if we want to stay on the quidditch team …’ ‘yeah, that’s right,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a heartened tone. ‘and we have got plenty of time to do it all …’ as they approached the quidditch pitch, Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory over to his right to where the trees of the forbidden forest were swaying darkly. nothing flew out of them; the sky was empty but for a few distant owls fluttering around the owlery tower. he had enough to worry about; the flying horse wasn’t doing him any harm; he pushed it out of his mind. they collected balls from the cupboard in the changing room and set to work, Ronald_Weasley guarding the three tall goalposts, Harry_Potter playing chaser and trying to get the quaffle past Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter thought Ronald_Weasley was pretty good; he blocked three-quarters of the goals Harry_Potter attempted to put past him and played better the longer they practised. after a couple of hours they returned to the castle for lunch – during which Hermione_Granger made it quite clear she thought they were irresponsible – then returned to the quidditch pitch for the real training session. all their teammates but Angelina_Johnson were already in the changing room when they entered. ‘all right, Ronald_Weasley’ said George_Weasley, winking at him. ‘yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley who had become quieter and quieter all the way down to the pitch. ‘ready to show us all up, ickle prefect?’ said Fred_Weasley, emerging tousle-haired from the neck of his quidditch robes, a slightly malicious grin on his face. ‘shut up,’ said Ronald_Weasley stony-faCedric_Diggory, pulling on his own team robes for the first time. they fitted him well considering they had been Oliver_Wood’s, who was rather broader in the shoulder. ‘ok, everyone,’ said Angelina_Johnson, entering from the captain’s office, already changed. ‘let’s get to it; Alicia_Spinnet and Fred_Weasley, if you can just bring out the ball crate for us. oh, and there are a couple of people out there watching but i want you to just ignore them, all right?’ something in her would-be casual voice made Harry_Potter think he might know who the uninvited spectators were, and sure enough, when they left the changing room for the bright sunlight of the pitch it was to a storm of catcalls and jeers from the slytherin quidditch team and assorted hangers-on, who were grouped halfway up the empty stands and whose voices echoed loudly around the stadium. ‘what’s that weasley’s riding?’ malfoy called in his sneering drawl. ‘why would anyone put a flying charm on a mouldy old log like that?’ crabbe, Goyle and Pansy_Parkinson guffawed and shrieked with laughter. Ronald_Weasley mounted his broom and kicked off from the ground and Harry_Potter followed him, watching his ears turn red from behind. ‘ignore them,’ he said, accelerating to catch up with Ronald_Weasley ‘we’ll see who’s laughing after we play them …’ ‘exactly the attitude i want, Harry_Potter,’ said Angelina_Johnson approvingly, soaring around them with the quaffle under her arm and slowing to hover on the spot in front of her airborne team. ‘ok, everyone, we’re going to start with some passes just to warm up, the whole team please –’ ‘hey, John_Dawlishson, what’s with that hairstyle, anyway?’ shrieked Pansy_Parkinson from below. ‘why would anyone want to look like they’ve got worms coming out of their head?’ Angelina_Johnson swept her long braided hair out of her face and continued calmly, ‘spread out, then, and let’s see what we can do …’ Harry_Potter reversed away from the others to the far side of the pitch. Ronald_Weasley fell back towards the opposite goal. Angelina_Johnson raised the quaffle with one hand and threw it hard to Fred_Weasley, who passed to George_Weasley, who passed to Harry_Potter, who passed to Ronald_Weasley who dropped it. the slytherins, led by malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter. Ronald_Weasley who had pelted towards the ground to catch the quaffle before it landed, pulled out of the dive untidily, so that he slipped sideways on his broom, and returned to playing height, blushing. Harry_Potter saw Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley exchange looks, but uncharacteristically neither of them said anything, for which he was grateful. ‘pass it on, Ronald_Weasley’ called Angelina_Johnson, as though nothing had happened. Ronald_Weasley threw the quaffle to Alicia_Spinnet, who passed back to Harry_Potter, who passed to George_Weasley … ‘hey, potter, how’s your scar feeling?’ called malfoy. ‘sure you don’t need a lie down? it must be, what, a whole week since you were in the hospital wing, that’s a record for you, isn’t it?’ George_Weasley passed to Angelina_Johnson; she reverse-passed to Harry_Potter, who had not been expecting it, but caught it in the very tips of his fingers and passed it quickly to Ronald_Weasley who lunged for it and missed by inches. ‘come on now, Ronald_Weasley’ said Angelina_Johnson crossly, as he dived for the ground again, chasing the quaffle. ‘pay attention.’ it would have been hard to say whether ron’s face or the quaffle was a deeper scarlet when he again returned to playing height. malfoy and the rest of the slytherin team were howling with laughter. on his third attempt, Ronald_Weasley caught the quaffle; perhaps out of relief he passed it on so enthusiastically that it soared straight through Katie_Bell’s outstretched hands and hit her hard in the face. ‘sorry!’ Ronald_Weasley groaned, zooming forwards to see whether he had done any damage. ‘get back in position, she’s fine!’ barked Angelina_Johnson. ‘but as you’re passing to a teammate, do try not to knock her off her broom, won’t you? we’ve got bludgers for that!’ Katie_Bell’s nose was bleeding. down below, the slytherins were stamping their feet and jeering. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley converged on Katie_Bell. ‘here, take this,’ Fred_Weasley told her, handing her something small and purple from out of his pocket, ‘it’ll clear it up in no time.’ ‘all right,’ called Angelina_Johnson, ‘Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley, go and get your bats and a bludger. Ronald_Weasley get up to the goalposts. Harry_Potter, release the snitch when i say so. we’re going to aim for ron’s goal, obviously.’ Harry_Potter zoomed off after the twins to fetch the snitch. ‘ron’s making a right pig’s ear of things, isn’t he?’ muttered George_Weasley, as the three of them landed at the crate containing the balls and opened it to extract one of the bludgers and the snitch. ‘he’s just nervous,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘he was fine when i was practising with him this morning.’ ‘yeah, well, i Hope_Howell he hasn’t peaked too soon,’ said Fred_Weasley gloomily. they returned to the air. when Angelina_Johnson blew her whistle, Harry_Potter released the snitch and Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley let fly the bludger. from that moment on, Harry_Potter was barely aware of what the others were doing. it was his job to recapture the tiny fluttering golden ball that was worth a hundred and fifty points to the seeker’s team and doing so required enormous speed and skill. he accelerated, rolling and swerving in and out of the chasers, the warm autumn air whipping his face, and the distant yells of the slytherins so much meaningless roaring in his ears … but too soon, the whistle brought him to a halt again. ‘stop – stop – stop!’ screamed Angelina_Johnson. ‘ron – you’re not covering your middle post!’ Harry_Potter looked round at Ronald_Weasley who was hovering in front of the left-hand hoop, leaving the other two completely unprotected. ‘oh … sorry …’ ‘you keep shifting around while you’re watching the chasers!’ said Angelina_Johnson. ‘either stay in centre position until you have to move to defend a hoop, or else circle the hoops, but don’t drift vaguely off to one side, that’s how you let in the last three goals!’ ‘sorry …’ Ronald_Weasley repeated, his red face shining like a beacon against the bright blue sky. ‘and Katie_Bell, can’t you do something about that nosebleed?’ ‘it’s just getting worse!’ said Katie_Bell thickly, attempting to stem the flow with her sleeve. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory round at Fred_Weasley, who was looking anxious and checking his pockets. he saw Fred_Weasley pull out something purple, examine it for a second and then look round at Katie_Bell, evidently horror-struck. ‘well, let’s try again,’ said Angelina_Johnson. she was ignoring the slytherins, who had now set up a chant of ‘gryffindor are losers, gryffindor are losers,’ but there was a certain rigidity about her seat on the broom nevertheless. this time they had been flying for barely three minutes when Angelina_Johnson’s whistle sounded. Harry_Potter, who had just sighted the snitch circling the opposite goalpost, pulled up feeling distinctly aggrieved. ‘what now?’ he said impatiently to Alicia_Spinnet, who was nearest. ‘Katie_Bell,’ she said shortly. Harry_Potter turned and saw Angelina_Johnson, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley all flying as fast as they could towards Katie_Bell. Harry_Potter and Alicia_Spinnet sped towards her, too. it was plain that Angelina_Johnson had stopped training just in time; Katie_Bell was now chalk white and covered in blood. ‘she needs the hospital wing,’ said Angelina_Johnson. ‘we’ll take her,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘she – er – might have swallowed a blood blisterpod by mistake –’ ‘well, there’s no point continuing with no beaters and a chaser gone,’ said Angelina_Johnson glumly as Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley zoomed off towards the castle supporting Katie_Bell between them. ‘come on, let’s go and get changed.’ the slytherins continued to chant as they trailed back into the changing rooms. ‘how was practice?’ asked Hermione_Granger rather coolly half an hour later, as Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley climbed through the portrait hole into the gryffindor common room. ‘it was –’ Harry_Potter began. ‘completely lousy,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a hollow voice, sinking into a chair beside Hermione_Granger. she looked up at Ronald_Weasley and her frostiness seemed to melt. ‘well, it was only your first one,’ she said consolingly, ‘it’s bound to take time to –’ ‘who said it was me who made it lousy?’ snapped Ronald_Weasley ‘no one,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking taken aback, ‘i thought –’ ‘you thought i was bound to be rubbish?’ ‘no, of course i didn’t! look, you said it was lousy so i just –’ ‘i’m going to get started on some homework,’ said Ronald_Weasley angrily and stomped off to the staircase to the boys’ dormitories and vanished from sight. Hermione_Granger turned to Harry_Potter. ‘was he lousy?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter loyally. Hermione_Granger raised her eyebrows. ‘well, i suppose he could’ve played better,’ Harry_Potter muttered, ‘but it was only the first training session, like you said …’ neither Harry_Potter nor Ronald_Weasley seemed to make much headway with their homework that night. Harry_Potter knew Ronald_Weasley was too preoccupied with how badly he had performed at quidditch practice and he himself was having difficulty in getting the ‘gryffindor are losers’ chant out of his head. they spent the whole of sunday in the common room, buried in their books while the room around them filled up, then emptied. it was another clear, fine day and most of their fellow gryffindors spent the day out in the grounds, enjoying what might well be some of the last sunshine that year. by the evening, Harry_Potter felt as though somebody had been beating his brain against the inside of his skull. ‘you know, we probably should try and get more homework done during the week,’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley as they finally laid aside professor Minerva_McGonagall’s long essay on the inanimatus conjurus spell and turned miserably to professor Aurora_Sinistra’s equally long and difficult essay about jupiter’s many moons. ‘yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and throwing his fifth spoiled bit of parchment into the fire beside them. ‘listen … shall we just ask Hermione_Granger if we can have a look at what she’s done?’ Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory over at her; she was sitting with Crookshanks on her lap and chatting merrily to Ginevra_Weasley as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair in front of her, now knitting a pair of shapeless Winky socks. ‘no,’ he said heavily, ‘you know she won’t let us.’ and so they worked on while the sky outside the windows became steadily darker. slowly, the crowd in the common room began to thin again. at half past eleven, Hermione_Granger wandered over to them, yawning. ‘nearly done?’ ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley shortly. ‘jupiter’s biggest moon is ganymede, not callisto,’ she said, pointing over ron’s shoulder at a line in his astronomy essay, ‘and it’s io that’s got the volcanoes.’ ‘thanks,’ snarled Ronald_Weasley scratching out the offending sentences. ‘sorry, i only –’ ‘yeah, well, if you’ve just come over here to criticise –’ ‘ron –’ ‘i haven’t got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione_Granger, i’m up to my neck in it here –’ ‘no – look!’ Hermione_Granger was pointing to the nearest window. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley both looked over. a handsome screech owl was standing on the windowsill, gazing into the room at Ronald_Weasley ‘isn’t that Hermes?’ said Hermione_Granger, sounding amazed. ‘blimey, it is!’ said Ronald_Weasley quietly, throwing down his quill and getting to his feet. ‘what’s Percy_Weasley writing to me for?’ he crossed to the window and opened it; Hermes flew inside, landed on ron’s essay and held out a leg to which a letter was attached. Ronald_Weasley took the letter off it and the owl departed at once, leaving inky footprints across ron’s drawing of the moon io. ‘that’s definitely Percy_Weasley’s handwriting,’ said Ronald_Weasley sinking back into his chair and staring at the words on the outside of the scroll: Ronald_Weasley, gryffindor house, hogwarts. he looked up at the other two. ‘what d’you reckon?’ ‘open it!’ said Hermione_Granger eagerly, and Harry_Potter nodded. Ronald_Weasley unrolled the scroll and began to read. the further down the parchment his eyes travelled, the more pronounCedric_Diggory became his scowl. when he had finished reading, he looked disgusted. he thrust the letter at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger, who leaned towards each other to read it together: dear Ronald_Weasley i have only just heard (from no less a person than the minister for magic himself, who has it from your new teacher, professor umbridge) that you have become a hogwarts prefect. i was most pleasantly surprised when i heard this news and must firstly offer my congratulations. i must admit that i have always been afraid that you would take what we might call the ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’  route, rather than following in my footsteps, so you can imagine my feelings on hearing you have stopped flouting authority and have decided to shoulder some real responsibility. but i want to give you more than congratulations, Ronald_Weasley i want to give you some advice, which is why i am sending this at night rather than by the usual morning post. Hope_Howellfully, you will be able to read this away from prying eyes and avoid awkward questions. from something the minister let slip when telling me you are now a prefect, i gather that you are still seeing a lot of Harry_Potter. i must tell you, Ronald_Weasley that nothing could put you in danger of losing your badge more than continued fraternisation with that boy. yes, i am sure you are surprised to hear this – no doubt you will say that potter has always been Albus_Dumbledore’s favourite – but i feel bound to tell you that Albus_Dumbledore may not be in charge at hogwarts much longer and the people who count have a very different – and probably more accurate – view of potter’s behaviour. i shall say no more here, but if you look at the daily prophet tomorrow you will get a good idea of the way the wind is blowing – and see if you can spot yours truly! seriously, Ronald_Weasley you do not want to be tarred with the same brush as potter, it could be very damaging to your future prospects, and i am talking here about life after school, too. as you must be aware, given that our father escorted him to court, potter had a disciplinary hearing this summer in front of the whole wizengamot and he did not come out of it looking too good. he got off on a mere technicality, if you ask me, and many of the people i’ve spoken to remain convinCedric_Diggory of his guilt. it may be that you are afraid to sever ties with potter – i know that he can be unbalanCedric_Diggory and, for all i know, violent – but if you have any worries about this, or have spotted anything else in potter’s behaviour that is troubling you, i urge you to speak to Dolores_Umbridge, a truly delightful woman who i know will be only too happy to advise you. this leads me to my other bit of advice. as i have hinted above, Albus_Dumbledore’s regime at hogwarts may soon be over. your loyalty, Ronald_Weasley should be not to him, but to the school and the ministry. i am very sorry to hear that, so far, professor umbridge is encountering very little co- operation from staff as she strives to make those necessary changes within hogwarts that the ministry so ardently desires (although she should find this easier from next week – again, see the daily prophet tomorrow!). i shall say only this – a student who shows himself willing to help professor umbridge now may be very well-plaCedric_Diggory for head boyship in a couple of years! i am sorry that i was unable to see more of you over the summer. it pains me to criticise our parents, but i am afraid i can no longer live under their roof while they remain mixed up with the dangerous crowd around Albus_Dumbledore. (if you are writing to mother at any point, you might tell her that a certain Sturgis_Podmore, who is a great friend of Albus_Dumbledore’s, has recently been sent to azkaban for trespass at the ministry. perhaps that will open their eyes to the kind of petty criminals with whom they are currently rubbing shoulders.) i count myself very lucky to have escaped the stigma of association with such people – the minister really could not be more gracious to me – and i do Hope_Howell, Ronald_Weasley that you will not allow family ties to blind you to the misguided nature of our parents’ beliefs and actions, either. i sincerely Hope_Howell that, in time, they will realise how mistaken they were and i shall, of course, be ready to accept a full apology when that day comes. please think over what i have said most carefully, particularly the bit about Harry_Potter, and congratulations again on becoming prefect. your brother, Percy_Weasley Harry_Potter looked up at Ronald_Weasley ‘well,’ he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole thing a joke, ‘if you want to – er – what is it?’ – he checked Percy_Weasley’s letter – ‘oh yeah – “sever ties” with me, i swear i won’t get violent.’ ‘give it back,’ said Ronald_Weasley holding out his hand. ‘he is –’ Ronald_Weasley said jerkily, tearing Percy_Weasley’s letter in half ‘the world’s –’ he tore it into quarters ‘biggest –’ he tore it into eighths ‘git.’ he threw the pieces into the fire. ‘come on, we’ve got to get this finished sometime before dawn,’ he said briskly to Harry_Potter, pulling professor Aurora_Sinistra’s essay back towards him. Hermione_Granger was looking at Ronald_Weasley with an odd expression on her face. ‘oh, give them here,’ she said abruptly. ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘give them to me, i’ll look through them and correct them,’ she said. ‘are you serious? ah, Hermione_Granger, you’re a life-saver,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘what can i –?’ ‘what you can say is, “we promise we’ll never leave our homework this late again,”’ she said, holding out both hands for their essays, but she looked slightly amused all the same.  ‘thanks a million, Hermione_Granger,’ said Harry_Potter weakly, passing over his essay and sinking back into his armchair, rubbing his eyes. it was now past midnight and the common room was deserted but for the three of them and Crookshanks. the only sound was that of Hermione_Granger’s quill scratching out sentences here and there on their essays and the ruffle of pages as she checked various facts in the reference books strewn across the table. Harry_Potter was exhausted. he also felt an odd, sick, empty feeling in his stomach that had nothing to do with tiredness and everything to do with the letter now curling blackly in the heart of the fire. he knew that half the people inside hogwarts thought him strange, even mad; he knew that the daily prophet had been making snide allusions to him for months, but there was something about seeing it written down like that in Percy_Weasley’s writing, about knowing that Percy_Weasley was advising Ronald_Weasley to drop him and even to tell tales about him to umbridge, that made his situation real to him as nothing else had. he had known Percy_Weasley for four years, had stayed in his house during the summer holidays, shared a tent with him during the quidditch world cup, had even been awarded full marks by him in the second task of the triwizard tournament last year, yet now, Percy_Weasley thought him unbalanCedric_Diggory and possibly violent. and with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry_Potter thought Sirius_Black was probably the only person he knew who could really understand how he felt at the moment, because Sirius_Black was in the same situation. nearly everyone in the wizarding world thought Sirius_Black a dangerous murderer and a great voldemort supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge for fourteen years … Harry_Potter blinked. he had just seen something in the fire that could not have been there. it had flashed into sight and vanished immediately. no … it could not have been … he had imagined it because he had been thinking about Sirius_Black … ‘ok, write that down,’ Hermione_Granger said to Ronald_Weasley pushing his essay and a sheet covered in her own writing back to Ronald_Weasley ‘then add this conclusion i’ve written for you.’ ‘Hermione_Granger, you are honestly the most wonderful person i’ve ever met,’ said Ronald_Weasley weakly, ‘and if i’m ever rude to you again –’ ‘– i’ll know you’re back to normal,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘Harry_Potter, yours is ok except for this bit at the end, i think you must have misheard professor Aurora_Sinistra, europa’s covered in ice, not mice – Harry_Potter?’ Harry_Potter had slid off his chair on to his knees and was now crouching on the singed and threadbare hearthrug, gazing into the flames. ‘er – Harry_Potter?’ said Ronald_Weasley uncertainly. ‘why are you down there?’ ‘because i’ve just seen Sirius_Black’s head in the fire,’ said Harry_Potter. he spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Sirius_Black’s head in this very fire the previous year and talked to it, too; nevertheless, he could not be sure that he had really seen it this time … it had vanished so quickly … ‘Sirius_Black’s head?’ Hermione_Granger repeated. ‘you mean like when he wanted to talk to you during the triwizard tournament? but he wouldn’t do that now, it would be too – Sirius_Black!’ she gasped, gazing at the fire; Ronald_Weasley dropped his quill. there in the middle of the dancing flames sat Sirius_Black’s head, long dark hair falling around his grinning face. ‘i was starting to think you’d go to bed before everyone else had disappeared,’ he said. ‘i’ve been checking every hour.’ ‘you’ve been popping into the fire every hour?’ Harry_Potter said, half-laughing. ‘just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear.’ ‘but what if you’d been seen?’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously. ‘well, i think a girl – first-year, by the look of her – might’ve got a glimpse of me earlier, but don’t worry,’ Sirius_Black said hastily, as Hermione_Granger clapped a hand to her mouth, ‘i was gone the moment she looked back at me and i’ll bet she just thought i was an oddly-shaped log or something.’ ‘but, Sirius_Black, this is taking an awful risk –’ Hermione_Granger began. ‘you sound like Molly_Weasley,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘this was the only way i could come up with of answering Harry_Potter’s letter without resorting to a code – and codes are breakable.’ at the mention of Harry_Potter’s letter, Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley both turned to stare at him. ‘you didn’t say you’d written to Sirius_Black!’ said Hermione_Granger accusingly. ‘i forgot,’ said Harry_Potter, which was perfectly true; his meeting with Cho_Chang in the owlery had driven everything before it out of his mind. ‘don’t look at me like that, Hermione_Granger, there was no way anyone would have got secret information out of it, was there, Sirius_Black?’ ‘no, it was very good,’ said Sirius_Black, smiling. ‘anyway, we’d better be quick, just in case we’re disturbed – your scar.’ ‘what about –?’ Ronald_Weasley began, but Hermione_Granger interrupted him. ‘we’ll tell you afterwards. go on, Sirius_Black.’ ‘well, i know it can’t be fun when it hurts, but we don’t think it’s anything to really worry about. it kept aching all last year, didn’t it?’ ‘yeah, and Albus_Dumbledore said it happened whenever voldemort was feeling a powerful emotion,’ said Harry_Potter, ignoring, as usual, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s winces. ‘so maybe he was just, i dunno, really angry or something the night i had that detention.’ ‘well, now he’s back it’s bound to hurt more often,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘so you don’t think it had anything to do with umbridge touching me when i was in detention with her?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘i doubt it,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘i know her by reputation and i’m sure she’s no death eater –’ ‘she’s foul enough to be one,’ said Harry_Potter darkly, and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger nodded vIgor_Karkaroffously in agreement. ‘yes, but the world isn’t split into good people and death eaters,’ said Sirius_Black with a wry smile. ‘i know she’s a nasty piece of work, though – you should hear Remus_Lupin talk about her.’ ‘does lupin know her?’ asked Harry_Potter quickly, remembering umbridge’s comments about dangerous half-breeds during her first lesson. ‘no,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘but she drafted a bit of anti-werewolf legislation two years ago that makes it almost impossible for him to get a job.’ Harry_Potter remembered how much shabbier lupin looked these days and his dislike of umbridge deepened even further. ‘what’s she got against werewolves?’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. ‘scared of them, i expect,’ said Sirius_Black, smiling at her indignation. ‘apparently, she loathes part-humans; she campaigned to have merpeople rounded up and tagged last year, too. imagine wasting your time and energy persecuting merpeople when there are little toerags like Kreacher on the loose.’ Ronald_Weasley laughed but Hermione_Granger looked upset. ‘Sirius_Black!’ she said reproachfully. ‘honestly, if you made a bit of an effort with Kreacher, i’m sure he’d respond. after all, you are the only member of his family he’s got left, and professor Albus_Dumbledore said –’ ‘so, what are umbridge’s lessons like?’ Sirius_Black interrupted. ‘is she training you all to kill half-breeds?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, ignoring Hermione_Granger’s affronted look at being cut off in her defence of Kreacher. ‘she’s not letting us use magic at all!’ ‘all we do is read the stupid textbook,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘ah, well, that figures,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘our information from inside the ministry is that fudge doesn’t want you trained in combat.’ ‘trained in combat!’ repeated Harry_Potter incredulously. ‘what does he think we’re doing here, forming some sort of wizard army?’ ‘that’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘or, rather, that’s exactly what he’s afraid Albus_Dumbledore’s doing – forming his own private army, with which he will be able to take on the ministry of magic.’ there was a pause at this, then Ronald_Weasley said, ‘that’s the most stupid thing i’ve ever heard, including all the stuff that Luna_Lovegood comes out with.’ ‘so we’re being prevented from learning defence against the dark arts because fudge is scared we’ll use spells against the ministry?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking furious. ‘yep,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘fudge thinks Albus_Dumbledore will stop at nothing to seize power. he’s getting more paranoid about Albus_Dumbledore by the day. it’s a matter of time before he has Albus_Dumbledore arrested on some trumped-up charge.’ this reminded Harry_Potter of Percy_Weasley’s letter. ‘d’you know if there’s going to be anything about Albus_Dumbledore in the daily prophet tomorrow? ron’s brother Percy_Weasley reckons there will be –’ ‘i don’t know,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘i haven’t seen anyone from the order all weekend, they’re all busy. it’s just been Kreacher and me here …’ there was a definite note of bitterness in Sirius_Black’s voice. ‘so you haven’t had any news about Rubeus_Hagrid, either?’ ‘ah …’ said Sirius_Black, ‘well, he was supposed to be back by now, no one’s sure what’s happened to him.’ then, seeing their stricken faces, he added quickly, ‘but Albus_Dumbledore’s not worried, so don’t you three get yourselves in a state; i’m sure Rubeus_Hagrid’s fine.’ ‘but if he was supposed to be back by now …’ said Hermione_Granger in a small, anxious voice. ‘madame maxime was with him, we’ve been in touch with her and she says they got separated on the journey home – but there’s nothing to suggest he’s hurt or – well, nothing to suggest he’s not perfectly ok.’ unconvinCedric_Diggory, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged worried looks. ‘listen, don’t go asking too many questions about Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Sirius_Black hastily, ‘it’ll just draw even more attention to the fact that he’s not back and i know Albus_Dumbledore doesn’t want that. Rubeus_Hagrid’s tough, he’ll be ok.’ and when they did not appear cheered by this, Sirius_Black added, ‘when’s your next hogsmeade weekend, anyway? i was thinking, we got away with the dog disguise at the station, didn’t we? i thought i could –’ ‘no!’ said Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger together, very loudly. ‘Sirius_Black, didn’t you see the daily prophet?’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously. ‘oh, that,’ said Sirius_Black, grinning, ‘they’re always guessing where i am, they haven’t really got a clue –’ ‘yeah, but we think this time they have,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘something malfoy said on the train made us think he knew it was you, and his father was on the platform, Sirius_Black – you know, Lucius_Malfoy – so don’t come up here, whatever you do. if malfoy recognises you again –’ ‘all right, all right, i’ve got the point,’ said Sirius_Black. he looked most displeased. ‘just an idea, thought you might like to get together.’ ‘i would, i just don’t want you chucked back in azkaban!’ said Harry_Potter. there was a pause in which Sirius_Black looked out of the fire at Harry_Potter, a crease between his sunken eyes. ‘you’re less like your father than i thought,’ he said finally, a definite coolness in his voice. ‘the risk would’ve been what made it fun for James_Potter_I.’ ‘look –’ ‘well, i’d better get going, i can hear Kreacher coming down the stairs,’ said Sirius_Black, but Harry_Potter was sure he was lying. ‘i’ll write to tell you a time i can make it back into the fire, then, shall i? if you can stand to risk it?’ there was a tiny pop, and the place where Sirius_Black’s head had been was flickering flame once more. 