— chapter nine — the woes of mrs weasley Albus_Dumbledore’s abrupt departure took Harry_Potter completely by surprise. he remained sitting where he was in the chained chair, struggling with his feelings of shock and relief. the wizengamot were all getting to their feet, talking, gathering up their papers and packing them away. Harry_Potter stood up. nobody seemed to be paying him the slightest bit of attention, except the toadlike witch on fudge’s right, who was now gazing down at him instead of at Albus_Dumbledore. ignoring her, he tried to catch fudge’s eye, or madam bones’s, wanting to ask whether he was free to go, but fudge seemed quite determined not to notice Harry_Potter, and madam bones was busy with her briefcase, so he took a few tentative steps towards the exit and, when nobody called him back, broke into a very fast walk. he took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door and almost collided with mr weasley, who was Stanley_Shunpikeding right outside, looking pale and apprehensive. ‘Albus_Dumbledore didn’t say –’ ‘cleared,’ Harry_Potter said, pulling the door closed behind him, ‘of all charges!’ beaming, mr weasley seized Harry_Potter by the shoulders. ‘Harry_Potter, that’s wonderful! well, of course, they couldn’t have found you guilty, not on the evidence, but even so, i can’t pretend i wasn’t –’ but mr weasley broke off, because the courtroom door had just opened again. the wizengamot were filing out. ‘merlin’s beard!’ exclaimed mr weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry_Potter aside to let them all pass. ‘you were tried by the full court?’ ‘i think so,’ said Harry_Potter quietly. one or two of the wizards nodded to Harry_Potter as they passed and a few, including madam bones, said, ‘morning, Arthur_Weasley,’ to mr weasley, but most averted their eyes. Cornelius_Fudge fudge and the toadlike witch were almost the last to leave the Mundungus_Fletchereon. fudge acted as though mr weasley and Harry_Potter were part of the wall, but again, the witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry_Potter as    she passed. last of all to pass was Percy_Weasley. like fudge, he completely ignored his father and Harry_Potter; he marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a handful of spare quills, his back rigid and his nose in the air. the lines around mr weasley’s mouth tightened slightly, but other than this he gave no sign that he had seen his third son. ‘i’m going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the good news,’ he said, beckoning Harry_Potter forwards as Percy_Weasley’s heels disappeared up the steps to level nine. ‘i’ll drop you off on the way to that toilet in bethnal green. come on …’ ‘so, what will you have to do about the toilet?’ Harry_Potter asked, grinning. everything suddenly seemed five times funnier than usual. it was starting to sink in: he was cleared, he was going back to hogwarts. ‘oh, it’s a simple enough anti-jinx,’ said mr weasley as they mounted the stairs, ‘but it’s not so much having to repair the damage, it’s more the attitude behind the vandalism, Harry_Potter. muggle-baiting might strike some wizards as funny, but it’s an expression of something much deeper and nastier, and i for one –’ mr weasley broke off in mid-sentence. they had just reached the ninth- level corridor and Cornelius_Fudge fudge was Stanley_Shunpikeding a few feet away from them, talking quietly to a Tall_goblin man with sleek blond hair and a pointed, pale face. the second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. he, too, broke off in mid-conversation, his cold grey eyes narrowed and fixed upon Harry_Potter’s face. ‘well, well, well … patronus potter,’ said Lucius_Malfoy malfoy coolly. Harry_Potter felt winded, as though he had just walked into something solid. he had last seen those cold grey eyes through slits in a death eater’s hood, and last heard that man’s voice jeering in a dark graveyard while lord voldemort tortured him. Harry_Potter could not believe that Lucius_Malfoy malfoy dared look him in the face; he could not believe that he was here, in the ministry of Magic_goblin, or that Cornelius_Fudge fudge was talking to him, when Harry_Potter had told fudge mere weeks ago that malfoy was a death eater. ‘the minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, potter,’ drawled mr malfoy. ‘quite astonishing, the way you continue to wriggle out of very tight holes … snakelike, in fact.’ mr weasley gripped Harry_Potter’s shoulder in warning. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘yeah, i’m good at escaping.’ Lucius_Malfoy malfoy raised his eyes to mr weasley’s face. ‘and Arthur_Weasley weasley too! what are you doing here, Arthur_Weasley?’ ‘i work here,’ said mr weasley curtly. ‘not here, surely?’ said mr malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glancing towards the door over mr weasley’s shoulder. ‘i thought you were up on the second floor … don’t you do something that involves sneaking muggle artefacts home and bewitching them?’ ‘no,’ mr weasley snapped, his fingers now biting into Harry_Potter’s shoulder. ‘what are you doing here, anyway?’ Harry_Potter asked Lucius_Malfoy malfoy. ‘i don’t think private matters between myself and the minister are any concern of yours, potter,’ said malfoy, smoothing the front of his robes. Harry_Potter distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like a full pocket of gold. ‘really, just because you are Albus_Dumbledore’s favourite boy, you must not expect the same indulgence from the rest of us … shall we go up to your office, then, minister?’ ‘certainly,’ said fudge, turning his back on Harry_Potter and mr weasley. ‘this way, Lucius_Malfoy.’ they strode off together, talking in low voices. mr weasley did not let go of Harry_Potter’s shoulder until they had disappeared into the lift. ‘why wasn’t he waiting outside fudge’s office if they’ve got business to do together?’ Harry_Potter burst out furiously. ‘what was he doing down here?’ ‘trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me,’ said mr weasley, looking extremely agitated and glancing over his shoulder as though making sure they could not be overheard. ‘trying to find out whether you’d been expelled or not. i’ll leave a note for Albus_Dumbledore when i drop you off, he ought to know malfoy’s been talking to fudge again.’ ‘what private business have they got together, anyway?’ ‘gold, i expect,’ said mr weasley angrily. ‘malfoy’s been giving generously to all sorts of things for years … gets him in with the right people … then he can ask favours … delay laws he doesn’t want passed … oh, he’s very well-connected, Lucius_Malfoy malfoy.’ the lift arrived; it was empty except for a flock of memos that flapped around mr weasley’s head as he pressed the button for the atrium and the doors clanged shut. he waved them away irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘mr weasley,’ said Harry_Potter slowly, ‘if fudge is meeting death eaters like malfoy, if he’s seeing them alone, how do we know they haven’t put the imperius curse on him?’ ‘don’t think it hasn’t occurred to us, Harry_Potter,’ said mr weasley quietly. ‘but Albus_Dumbledore thinks fudge is acting of his own accord at the moment – which, as Albus_Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort. best not talk about it any more just now, Harry_Potter.’ the doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almost-deserted atrium. Eric_Munch the watchwizard was hidden behind his daily prophet again. they had walked straight past the golden fountain before Harry_Potter remembered. ‘wait …’ he told mr weasley, and, pulling his moneybag from his pocket, he turned back to the fountain. he looked up into the handsome wizard’s face, but close-to Harry_Potter thought he looked rather weak and foolish. the witch was wearing a vapid smile like a beauty conteStanley_Shunpiket, and from what Harry_Potter knew of goblins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to be caught staring so soppily at humans of any description. only the house-elf’s attitude of creeping servility looked convincing. with a grin at the thought of what Hermione_Granger would say if she could see the statue of the elf, Harry_Potter turned his moneybag upsidedown and emptied not just ten galleons, but the whole contents into the pool. * ‘i knew it!’ yelled ron, punching the air. ‘you always get away with stuff!’ ‘they were bound to clear you,’ said Hermione_Granger, who had looked positively faint with anxiety when Harry_Potter had entered the kitchen and was now holding a shaking hand over her eyes, ‘there was no case against you, none at all.’ ‘everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering you all knew i’d get off,’ said Harry_Potter, smiling. mrs weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley were doing a kind of war dance to a chant that went: ‘he got off, he got off, he got off …’ ‘that’s enough! settle down!’ shouted mr weasley, though he too was smiling. ‘listen, Sirius_Black, Lucius_Malfoy malfoy was at the ministry –’ ‘what?’ said Sirius_Black sharply. ‘he got off, he got off, he got off …’ ‘be quiet, you three! yes, we saw him talking to fudge on level nine, then they went up to fudge’s office together. Albus_Dumbledore ought to know.’ ‘absolutely,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘we’ll tell him, don’t worry.’ ‘well, i’d better get going, there’s a vomiting toilet waiting for me in bethnal green. Molly_Weasley, i’ll be late, i’m covering for tonks, but Kingsley_Shacklebolt might be dropping in for dinner –’ ‘he got off, he got off, he got off …’ ‘that’s enough – Fred_Weasley – George_Weasley – Ginevra_Weasley!’ said mrs weasley, as mr weasley left the kitchen. ‘Harry_Potter, dear, come and sit down, have some lunch, you hardly ate breakfast.’ ron and Hermione_Granger sat themselves down opposite him, looking happier than they had done since he had first arrived at grimmauld place, and Harry_Potter’s feeling of giddy relief, which had been somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius_Malfoy malfoy, swelled again. the Gloomy_nuns house seemed warmer and more welcoming all of a sudden; even Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his snoutlike nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all the noise. ‘course, once Albus_Dumbledore turned up on your side, there was no way they were going to convict you,’ saidRonald_Weasleyhappily, now dishing great mounds of mashed potato on to everyone’s plates. ‘yeah, he swung it for me,’ said Harry_Potter. he felt it would sound highly ungrateful, not to mention childish, to say, ‘i wish he’d talked to me, though. or even looked at me.’ and as he thought this, the scar on his forehead burned so badly that he clapped his hand to it. ‘what’s up?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking alarmed. ‘scar,’ Harry_Potter mumbled. ‘but it’s nothing … it happens all the time now …’ none of the others had noticed a thing; all of them were now helping themselves to food while gloating over Harry_Potter’s narrow escape; Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley were still singing. Hermione_Granger looked rather anxious, but before she could say anything,Ronald_Weasleyhad said happily, ‘i bet Albus_Dumbledore turns up this evening, to celebrate with us, you know.’ ‘i don’t think he’ll be able to, ron,’ said mrs weasley, setting a huge plate of roast chicken down in front of Harry_Potter. ‘he’s really very busy at the moment.’ ‘he got off, he got off, he got off …’ ‘shut up!’ roared mrs weasley. * over the next few days Harry_Potter could not help noticing that there was one person within number twelve, grimmauld place, who did not seem wholly overjoyed that he would be returning to hogwarts. Sirius_Black had put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing the news, wringing Harry_Potter’s hand and beaming just like the rest of them. soon, however, he was moodier and surlier than before, talking less to everybody, even Harry_Potter, and spending increasing amounts of time shut up in his mother’s room with Buckbeak. ‘don’t you go feeling guilty!’ said Hermione_Granger sternly, after Harry_Potter had confided some of his feelings to her andRonald_Weasleywhile they scrubbed out a mouldy cupboard on the third floor a few days later. ‘you belong at hogwarts and Sirius_Black knows it. personally, i think he’s being selfish.’ ‘that’s a bit harsh, Hermione_Granger,’ said ron, frowning as he attempted to prise off a bit of mould that had attached itself firmly to his finger, ‘you wouldn’t want to be stuck inside this house without any company.’ ‘he’ll have company!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it’s headquarters to the order of the phoenix, isn’t it? he just got his Hope_Howells up that Harry_Potter would be coming to live here with him.’ ‘i don’t think that’s true,’ said Harry_Potter, wringing out his cloth. ‘he wouldn’t give me a straight answer when i asked him if i could.’ ‘he just didn’t want to get his own Hope_Howells up even more,’ said Hermione_Granger wisely. ‘and he probably felt a bit guilty himself, because i think a part of him was really hoping you’d be expelled. then you’d both be outcasts together.’ ‘come off it!’ said Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleytogether, but Hermione_Granger merely shrugged. ‘suit yourselves. but i sometimes think ron’s mum’s right and Sirius_Black gets confused about whether you’re you or your father, Harry_Potter.’ ‘so you think he’s touched in the head?’ said Harry_Potter heatedly. ‘no, i just think he’s been very lonely for a long time,’ said Hermione_Granger simply. at this point, mrs weasley entered the bedroom behind them. ‘still not finished?’ she said, poking her head into the cupboard. ‘i thought you might be here to tell us to have a break!’ saidRonald_Weasleybitterly. ‘d’you know how much mould we’ve got rid of since we arrived here?’ ‘you were so keen to help the order,’ said mrs weasley, ‘you can do your bit by making headquarters fit to live in.’ ‘i feel like a house-elf,’ grumbled ron. ‘well, now you underStanley_Shunpiked what dreadful lives they lead, perhaps you’ll be a bit more active in s.p.e.w.!’ said Hermione_Granger Hope_Howellfully, as mrs weasley left them to it. ‘you know, maybe it wouldn’t be a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible it is to clean all the time – we could do a sponsored scrub of gryffindor common room, all proceeds to s.p.e.w., it would raise awareness as well as funds.’ ‘i’ll sponsor you to shut up about s.p.e.w.,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered irRita_Skeeterbly, but only so Harry_Potter could hear him. * Harry_Potter found himself daydreaming about hogwarts more and more as the end of the holidays approached; he could not wait to see Rubeus_Hagrid again, to play quidditch, even to stroll across the vegetable patches to the herbology greenhouses; it would be a treat just to leave this dusty, musty house, where half of the cupboards were still bolted shut and Kreacher wheezed insults out of the shadows as you passed, though Harry_Potter was careful not to say any of this within earshot of Sirius_Black. the fact was that living at the headquarters of the anti-voldemort movement was not nearly as interesting or exciting as Harry_Potter would have expected before he’d experienced it. though members of the order of the phoenix came and went regularly, sometimes staying for meals, sometimes only for a few minutes of whispered conversation, mrs weasley made sure that Harry_Potter and the others were kept well out of earshot (whether extendable or normal) and nobody, not even Sirius_Black, seemed to feel that Harry_Potter needed to know anything more than he had heard on the night of his arrival. on the very last day of the holidays Harry_Potter was sweeping up Hedwig’s owl droppings from the top of the wardrobe whenRonald_Weasleyentered their bedroom carrying a couple of envelopes. ‘booklists have arrived,’ he said, throwing one of the envelopes up to Harry_Potter, who was Stanley_Shunpikeding on a chair. ‘about time, i thought they’d forgotten, they usually come much earlier than this …’ Harry_Potter swept the last of the droppings into a rubbish bag and threw the bag over ron’s head into the wastepaper basket in the corner, which swallowed it and belched loudly. he then opened his letter. it contained two pieces of parchment: one the usual reminder that term started on the first of september; the other telling him which books he would need for the coming year. ‘only two new ones,’ he said, reading the list, ‘the Stanley_Shunpikedard book of spells, grade 5, by miranda goshawk, and defensive Magic_goblinal theory, by wilbert slinkhard.’ crack. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley apparated right beside Harry_Potter. he was so used to them doing this by now that he didn’t even fall off his chair. ‘we were just wondering who set the slinkhard book,’ said Fred_Weasley conversationally. ‘because it means Albus_Dumbledore’s found a new defence against the dark arts teacher,’ said George_Weasley. ‘and about time too,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘what d’you mean?’ Harry_Potter asked, jumping down beside them. ‘well, we overheard mum and dad talking on the extendable ears a few weeks back,’ Fred_Weasley told Harry_Potter, ‘and from what they were saying, Albus_Dumbledore was having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this year.’ ‘not surprising, is it, when you look at what’s happened to the last four?’ said George_Weasley. ‘one sacked, one dead, one’s memory removed and one locked in a trunk for nine months,’ said Harry_Potter, counting them off on his fingers. ‘yeah, i see what you mean.’ ‘what’s up with you, ron?’ asked Fred_Weasley.Ronald_Weasleydid not answer. Harry_Potter looked round.Ronald_Weasleywas Stanley_Shunpikeding very still with his mouth slightly open, gaping at his letter from hogwarts. ‘what’s the matter?’ said Fred_Weasley impatiently, moving aroundRonald_Weasleyto look over his shoulder at the parchment. Fred_Weasley’s mouth fell open, too. ‘prefect?’ he said, staring incredulously at the letter. ‘prefect?’ George_Weasley leapt forwards, seized the envelope in ron’s other hand and turned it upside-down. Harry_Potter saw something scarlet and gold fall into George_Weasley’s palm. ‘no way,’ said George_Weasley in a hushed voice. ‘there’s been a mistake,’ said Fred_Weasley, snatching the letter out of ron’s grasp and holding it up to the light as though checking for a watermark. ‘no one in their right mind would makeRonald_Weasleya prefect.’ the twins’ heads turned in unison and both of them stared at Harry_Potter. ‘we thought you were a cert!’ said Fred_Weasley, in a tone that suggested Harry_Potter had tricked them in some way. ‘we thought Albus_Dumbledore was bound to pick you!’ said George_Weasley indignantly. ‘winning the triwizard and everything!’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘i suppose all the mad stuff must’ve counted against him,’ said George_Weasley to Fred_Weasley. ‘yeah,’ said Fred_Weasley slowly. ‘yeah, you’ve caused too much trouble, mate. well, at least one of you’s got their priorities right.’ he strode over to Harry_Potter and clapped him on the back while givingRonald_Weasleya scathing look. ‘prefect … ickle Rose_Granger-Weasley the prefect.’ ‘ohh, mum’s going to be revolting,’ groaned George_Weasley, thrusting the prefect badge back atRonald_Weasleyas though it might contaminate him. ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, stared at it for a moment, then held it out to Harry_Potter as though asking mutely for confIrma_Pincetion that it was genuine. Harry_Potter took it. a large ‘p’ was superimposed on the gryffindor lion. he had seen a badge just like this on Percy_Weasley’s chest on his very first day at hogwarts. the door banged open. Hermione_Granger came tearing into the room, her cheeks flushed and her hair flying. there was an envelope in her hand. ‘did you – did you get –?’ she spotted the badge in Harry_Potter’s hand and let out a shriek. ‘i knew it!’ she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. ‘me too, Harry_Potter, me too!’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter quickly, pushing the badge back into ron’s hand. ‘it’s ron, not me.’ ‘it – what?’ ‘ron’s prefect, not me,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘ron?’ said Hermione_Granger, her jaw dropping. ‘but … are you sure? i mean –’ she turned red asRonald_Weasleylooked round at her with a defiant expression on his face. ‘it’s my name on the letter,’ he said. ‘i …’ said Hermione_Granger, looking thoroughly bewildered. ‘i … well … wow! well done, ron! that’s really –’ ‘unexpected,’ said George_Weasley, nodding. ‘no,’ said Hermione_Granger, blushing harder than ever, ‘no it’s not … ron’s done loads of … he’s really …’ the door behind her opened a little wider and mrs weasley backed into the room carrying a pile of freshly laundered robes. ‘Ginevra_Weasley said the booklists had come at last,’ she said, glancing around at all the envelopes as she made her way over to the bed and started sorting the robes into two piles. ‘if you give them to me i’ll take them over to diagon alley this afternoon and get your books while you’re packing. ron, i’ll have to get you more pyjamas, these are at least six inches too short, i can’t believe how fast you’re growing … what colour would you like?’ ‘get him red and gold to match his badge,’ said George_Weasley, smirking. ‘match his what?’ said mrs weasley absently, rolling up a pair of maroon socks and placing them on ron’s pile. ‘his badge,’ said Fred_Weasley, with the air of getting the worst over quickly. ‘his lovely shiny new prefect’s badge.’ Fred_Weasley’s words took a moment to penetrate mrs weasley’s preoccupation with pyjamas. ‘his … but … ron, you’re not …?’Ronald_Weasleyheld up his badge. mrs weasley let out a shriek just like Hermione_Granger’s. ‘i don’t believe it! i don’t believe it! oh, ron, how wonderful! a prefect! that’s everyone in the family!’ ‘what are Fred_Weasley and i, next-door neighbours?’ said George_Weasley indignantly, as his mother pushed him aside and flung her arms around her youngest son. ‘wait until your father hears! ron, i’m so proud of you, what wonderful news, you could end up head boy just like William_Weasley and Percy_Weasley, it’s the first step! oh, what a thing to happen in the middle of all this worry, i’m just thrilled, oh, Rose_Granger-Weasley –’ Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were both making loud retching noises behind her back but mrs weasley did not notice; arms tight around ron’s neck, she was kissing him all over his face, which had turned a brighter scarlet than his badge. ‘mum … don’t … mum, get a grip …’ he muttered, trying to push her away. she let go of him and said breathlessly, ‘well, what will it be? we gave Percy_Weasley an owl, but you’ve already got one, of course.’ ‘w-what do you mean?’ said ron, looking as though he did not dare believe his ears. ‘you’ve got to have a reward for this!’ said mrs weasley fondly. ‘how about a nice new set of dress robes?’ ‘we’ve already bought him some,’ said Fred_Weasley sourly, who looked as though he sincerely regretted this generosity. ‘or a new cauldron, Charles_Weasley’s old one’s rusting through, or a new rat, you always liked scabbers –’ ‘mum,’ saidRonald_WeasleyHope_Howellfully, ‘can i have a new broom?’ mrs weasley’s face fell slightly; broomsticks were expensive. ‘not a really good one!’Ronald_Weasleyhastened to add. ‘just – just a new one for a change …’ mrs weasley hesitated, then smiled. ‘of course you can … well, i’d better get going if i’ve got a broom to buy too. i’ll see you all later … little Rose_Granger-Weasley, a prefect! and don’t forget to pack your trunks … a prefect … oh, i’m all of a dither!’ she gaveRonald_Weasleyyet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed loudly, and bustled from the room. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley exchanged looks. ‘you don’t mind if we don’t kiss you, do you, ron?’ said Fred_Weasley in a falsely anxious voice. ‘we could curtsey, if you like,’ said George_Weasley. ‘oh, shut up,’ said ron, scowling at them. ‘or what?’ said Fred_Weasley, an evil grin spreading across his face. ‘going to put us in detention?’ ‘i’d love to see him try,’ sniggered George_Weasley. ‘he could if you don’t watch out!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley burst out laughing, andRonald_Weasleymuttered, ‘drop it, Hermione_Granger.’ ‘we’re going to have to watch our step, George_Weasley,’ said Fred_Weasley, pretending to tremble, ‘with these two on our case …’ ‘yeah, it looks like our law-breaking days are finally over,’ said George_Weasley, shaking his head. and with another loud crack, the twins disapparated. ‘those two!’ said Hermione_Granger furiously, staring up at the ceiling, through which they could now hear Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley roaring with laughter in the room upstairs. ‘don’t pay any attention to them, ron, they’re only jealous!’ ‘i don’t think they are,’ saidRonald_Weasleydoubtfully, also looking up at the ceiling. ‘they’ve always said only prats become prefects … still,’ he added on a happier note, ‘they’ve never had new brooms! i wish i could go with mum and choose … she’ll never be able to afford a nimbus, but there’s the new cleansweep out, that’d be great … yeah, i think i’ll go and tell her i like the cleansweep, just so she knows …’ he dashed from the room, leaving Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger alone. for some reason, Harry_Potter found he did not want to look at Hermione_Granger. he turned to his bed, picked up the pile of clean robes mrs weasley had laid on it and crossed the room to his trunk. ‘Harry_Potter?’ said Hermione_Granger tentatively. ‘well done, Hermione_Granger,’ said Harry_Potter, so heartily it did not sound like his voice at all, and, still not looking at her, ‘brilliant. prefect. great.’ ‘thanks,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘erm – Harry_Potter – could i borrow Hedwig so i can tell mum and dad? they’ll be really pleased – i mean prefect is something they can underStanley_Shunpiked.’ ‘yeah, no problem,’ said Harry_Potter, still in the horrible hearty voice that did not belong to him. ‘take her!’ he leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the bottom of it and pretended to be rummaging for something while Hermione_Granger crossed to the wardrobe and called Hedwig down. a few moments passed; Harry_Potter heard the door close but remained bent double, listening; the only sounds he could hear were the blank picture on the wall sniggering again and the wastepaper basket in the corner coughing up the owl droppings. he straightened up and looked behind him. Hermione_Granger had left and Hedwig had gone. Harry_Potter returned slowly to his bed and sank on to it, gazing unseeingly at the foot of the wardrobe. he had forgotten completely about prefects being chosen in the fifth year. he had been too anxious about the possibility of being expelled to spare a thought for the fact that badges must be winging their way towards certain people. but if he had remembered … if he had thought about it … what would he have expected? not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head. Harry_Potter screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. he could not lie to himself; if he had known the prefect badge was on its way, he would have expected it to come to him, not ron. did this make him as arrogant as Draco_Malfoy malfoy? did he think himself superior to everyone else? did he really believe he was better than ron? no, said the small voice defiantly. was that true? Harry_Potter wondered, anxiously probing his own feelings. i’m better at quidditch, said the voice. but i’m not better at anything else. that was definitely true, Harry_Potter thought; he was no better thanRonald_Weasleyin lessons. but what about outside lessons? what about those adventures he,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger had had together since starting at hogwarts, often risking much worse than expulsion? well,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger were with me most of the time, said the voice in Harry_Potter’s head. not all the time, though, Harry_Potter argued with himself. they didn’t fight quirrell with me. they didn’t take on riddle and the Basilisk. they didn’t get rid of all those dementors the night Sirius_Black escaped. they weren’t in that graveyard with me, the night voldemort returned … and the same feeling of ill-usage that had overwhelmed him on the night he had arrived Rose_Zeller again. i’ve definitely done more, Harry_Potter thought indignantly. i’ve done more than either of them! but maybe, said the small voice fairly, maybe Albus_Dumbledore doesn’t choose prefects because they’ve got themselves into a load of dangerous situations … maybe he chooses them for other reasons …Ronald_Weasleymust have something you don’t … Harry_Potter opened his eyes and stared through his fingers at the wardrobe’s clawed feet, remembering what Fred_Weasley had said: ‘no one in their right mind would makeRonald_Weasleya prefect …’ Harry_Potter gave a small snort of laughter. a second later he felt sickened with himself.Ronald_Weasleyhad not asked Albus_Dumbledore to give him the prefect badge. this was not ron’s fault. was he, Harry_Potter, ron’s best friend in the world, going to sulk because he didn’t have a badge, laugh with the twins behind ron’s back, ruin this forRonald_Weasleywhen, for the first time, he had beaten Harry_Potter at something? at this point Harry_Potter heard ron’s footsteps on the stairs again. he stood up, straightened his glasses, and hitched a grin on to his face asRonald_Weasleybounded back through the door. ‘just caught her!’ he said happily. ‘she says she’ll get the cleansweep if she can.’ ‘cool,’ Harry_Potter said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had stopped sounding hearty. ‘listen –Ronald_Weasley– well done, mate.’ the smile faded off ron’s face. ‘i never thought it would be me!’ he said, shaking his head. ‘i thought it would be you!’ ‘nah, i’ve caused too much trouble,’ Harry_Potter said, echoing Fred_Weasley. ‘yeah,’ said ron, ‘yeah, i suppose … well, we’d better get our trunks packed, hadn’t we?’ it was odd how widely their possessions seemed to have scattered themselves since they had arrived. it took them most of the afternoon to retrieve their books and belongings from all over the house and stow them back inside their school trunks. Harry_Potter noticed thatRonald_Weasleykept moving his prefect’s badge around, first placing it on his bedside table, then putting it into his jeans pocket, then taking it out and laying it on his folded robes, as though to see the effect of the red on the black. only when Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley dropped in and offered to attach it to his forehead with a permanent sticking charm did he wrap it tenderly in his maroon socks and lock it in his trunk. mrs weasley returned from diagon alley around six o’clock, laden with books and carrying a long package wrapped in thick brown paper thatRonald_Weasleytook from her with a moan of longing. ‘never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, i want you all downstairs,’ she said, but the moment she was out of sightRonald_Weasleyripped off the paper in a frenzy and examined every inch of his new broom, an ecstatic expression on his face. down in the basement mrs weasley had hung a scarlet banner over the heavily laden dinner table, which read: congratulationsRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger new prefects she looked in a better mood than Harry_Potter had seen her all holiday. ‘i thought we’d have a little party, not a sit-down dinner,’ she told Harry_Potter, ron, Hermione_Granger, Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley as they entered the room. ‘your father and William_Weasley are on their way, ron. i’ve sent them both owls and they’re thrilled,’ she added, beaming. Fred_Weasley rolled his eyes. Sirius_Black, lupin, tonks and Kingsley_Shacklebolt shacklebolt were already there and Alastor_Moody moody stumped in shortly after Harry_Potter had got himself a butterbeer. ‘oh, Alastor_Moody, i am glad you’re here,’ said mrs weasley brightly, as mad- eye shrugged off his travelling cloak. ‘we’ve been wanting to ask you for ages – could you have a look in the writing desk in the drawing room and tell us what’s inside it? we haven’t wanted to open it just in case it’s something really nasty.’ ‘no problem, Molly_Weasley …’ moody’s electric-blue eye swivelled upwards and stared fixedly through the ceiling of the kitchen. ‘drawing room …’ he growled, as the pupil contracted. ‘desk in the corner? yeah, i see it … yeah, it’s a boggart … want me to go up and get rid of it, Molly_Weasley?’ ‘no, no, i’ll do it myself later,’ beamed mrs weasley, ‘you have your drink. we’re having a little bit of a celebration, actually …’ she gestured at the scarlet banner. ‘fourth prefect in the family!’ she said fondly, ruffling ron’s hair. ‘prefect, eh?’ growled moody, his normal eye onRonald_Weasleyand his Magic_goblinal eye swivelling around to gaze into the side of his head. Harry_Potter had the very uncomfortable feeling it was looking at him and moved away towards Sirius_Black and lupin. ‘well, congratulations,’ said moody, still glaring atRonald_Weasleywith his normal eye, ‘authority figures always attract trouble, but i suppose Albus_Dumbledore thinks you can withStanley_Shunpiked most major jinxes or he wouldn’t have appointed   you …’Ronald_Weasleylooked rather startled at this view of the matter but was saved the trouble of responding by the arrival of his father and eldest brother. mrs weasley was in such a good mood she did not even complain that they had brought MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher with them; he was wearing a long overcoat that seemed oddly lumpy in unlikely places and declined the offer to remove it and put it with moody’s travelling cloak. ‘well, i think a toast is in order,’ said mr weasley, when everyone had a drink. he raised his goblet. ‘toRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, the new gryffindor prefects!’Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger beamed as everyone drank to them, and then applauded. ‘i was never a prefect myself,’ said tonks brightly from behind Harry_Potter as everybody moved towards the table to help themselves to food. her hair was tomato red and waist-length today; she looked like Ginevra_Weasley’s older sister. ‘my head of house said i lacked certain necessary qualities.’ ‘like what?’ said Ginevra_Weasley, who was choosing a baked potato. ‘like the ability to behave myself,’ said tonks. Ginevra_Weasley laughed; Hermione_Granger looked as though she did not know whether to smile or not and compromised by taking an extra large gulp of butterbeer and choking on it. ‘what about you, Sirius_Black?’ Ginevra_Weasley asked, thumping Hermione_Granger on the back. Sirius_Black, who was right beside Harry_Potter, let out his usual bark-like laugh. ‘no one would have made me a prefect, i spent too much time in detention with James_Potter_I. lupin was the good boy, he got the badge.’ ‘i think Albus_Dumbledore might have Hope_Howelld i would be able to exercise some control over my best friends,’ said lupin. ‘i need scarcely say that i failed dismally.’ Harry_Potter’s mood suddenly lifted. his father had not been a prefect either. all at once the party seemed much more enjoyable; he loaded up his plate, feeling doubly fond of everyone in the room.Ronald_Weasleywas rhapsodising about his new broom to anybody who would listen. ‘… nought to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? when you think the comet two ninety’s only nought to sixty and that’s with a decent tailwind according to which broomstick?’ Hermione_Granger was talking very earnestly to lupin about her view ofWinkyrights. ‘i mean, it’s the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation, isn’t it? it all stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking they’re superior to other creatures …’ mrs weasley and William_Weasley were having their usual argument about William_Weasley’s hair. ‘… getting really out of hand, and you’re so good-looking, it would look much better shorter, wouldn’t it, Harry_Potter?’ ‘oh – i dunno –’ said Harry_Potter, slightly alarmed at being asked his opinion; he slid away from them in the direction of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who were huddled in a corner with MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher. MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher stopped talking when he saw Harry_Potter, but Fred_Weasley winked and beckoned Harry_Potter closer. ‘it’s ok,’ he told MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher, ‘we can trust Harry_Potter, he’s our financial backer.’ ‘look what Mundungus_Fletcher’s got us,’ said George_Weasley, holding out his hand to Harry_Potter. it was full of what looked like shrivelled black pods. a faint rattling noise was coming from them, even though they were completely stationary. ‘venomous tentacula seeds,’ said George_Weasley. ‘we need them for the skiving snackboxes but they’re a class c non-tradeable subStanley_Shunpikece so we’ve been having a bit of trouble getting hold of them.’ ‘ten galleons the lot, then, Mundungus_Fletcher?’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘wiv all the trouble i went to to get ’em?’ said MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher, his saggy, bloodshot eyes stretching even wider. ‘i’m sorry, lads, but i’m not taking a knut under twenty.’ ‘Mundungus_Fletcher likes his little joke,’ Fred_Weasley said to Harry_Potter. ‘yeah, his best one so far has been six sickles for a bag of knarl quills,’ said George_Weasley. ‘be careful,’ Harry_Potter warned them quietly. ‘what?’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘mum’s busy cooing over prefect ron, we’re ok.’ ‘but moody could have his eye on you,’ Harry_Potter pointed out. MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher looked nervously over his shoulder. ‘good point, that,’ he grunted. ‘all right, lads, ten it is, if you’ll take ’em quick.’ ‘cheers, Harry_Potter!’ said Fred_Weasley delightedly, when MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher had emptied his pockets into the twins’ outstretched hands and scuttled off towards the food. ‘we’d better get these upstairs …’ Harry_Potter watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. it had just occurred to him that mr and mrs weasley would want to know how Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were financing their joke shop business when, as was inevitable, they finally found out about it. giving the twins his triwizard winnings had seemed a simple thing to do at the time, but what if it led to another family row and a Percy_Weasley- like estrangement? would mrs weasley still feel that Harry_Potter was as good as her son if she found out he had made it possible for Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley to start a career she thought quite unsuitable? Stanley_Shunpikeding where the twins had left him, with nothing but a guilty weight in the pit of his stomach for company, Harry_Potter caught the sound of his own name. Kingsley_Shacklebolt shacklebolt’s deep voice was audible even over the surrounding chatter. ‘… why Albus_Dumbledore didn’t make potter a prefect?’ said Kingsley_Shacklebolt. ‘he’ll have had his reasons,’ replied lupin. ‘but it would’ve shown confidence in him. it’s what i’d’ve done,’ persisted Kingsley_Shacklebolt, ‘’specially with the daily prophet having a go at him every few days …’ Harry_Potter did not look round; he did not want lupin or Kingsley_Shacklebolt to know he had heard. though not remotely hungry, he followed MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher back towards the table. his pleasure in the party had evaporated as quickly as it had come; he wished he were upstairs in bed. Alastor_Moody moody was sniffing at a chicken-leg with what remained of his nose; evidently he could not detect any trace of poison, because he then tore a strip off it with his teeth. ‘… the handle’s made of spanish oak with anti-jinx varnish and in-built vibration control –’Ronald_Weasleywas saying to tonks. mrs weasley yawned widely. ‘well, i think i’ll sort out that boggart before i turn in … Arthur_Weasley, i don’t want this lot up too late, all right? night, Harry_Potter, dear.’ she left the kitchen. Harry_Potter set down his plate and wondered whether he could follow her without attracting attention. ‘you all right, potter?’ grunted moody. ‘yeah, fine,’ lied Harry_Potter. moody took a swig from his hipflask, his electric-blue eye staring sideways at Harry_Potter. ‘come here, i’ve got something that might interest you,’ he said. from an inner pocket of his robes moody pulled a very tattered old wizarding photograph. ‘original order of the phoenix,’ growled moody. ‘found it last night when i was looking for my spare invisibility cloak, seeing as podmore hasn’t had the manners to return my best one … thought people might like to see it.’ Harry_Potter took the photograph. a small crowd of people, some waving at him, others lifting their glasses, looked back up at him. ‘there’s me,’ said moody, unnecessarily pointing at himself. the moody in the picture was unmistakeable, though his hair was slightly less grey and his nose was intact. ‘and there’s Albus_Dumbledore beside me, Dedalus_Diggle diggle on the other side … that’s marlene mckinnon, she was killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family. that’s Frank_Longbottom and Alice_Longbottom longbottom –’ Harry_Potter’s stomach, already uncomfortable, clenched as he looked at Alice_Longbottom longbottom; he knew her round, friendly face very well, even though he had never met her, because she was the image of her son, Neville_Longbottom. ‘– poor devils,’ growled moody. ‘better dead than what happened to them … and that’s Emmeline_Vance vance, you’ve met her, and that there’s lupin, obviously … benjy fenwick, he copped it too, we only ever found bits of him … shift aside there,’ he added, poking the picture, and the little photographic people edged sideways, so that those who were partially obscured could move to the front. ‘that’s Edgar_Bones bones … brother of Amelia_Bones bones, they got him and his family, too, he was a great wizard … Sturgis_Podmore podmore, blimey, he looks young … caradoc dearborn, vanished six months after this, we never found his body … Rubeus_Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the same as ever … Elphias_Doge doge, you’ve met him, i’d forgotten he used to wear that stupid hat … Gideon_Crumb prewett, it took five death eaters to kill him and his brother fabian, they fought like heroes … budge along, budge along …’ the little people in the photograph jostled among themselves and those hidden right at the back appeared at the forefront of the picture. ‘that’s Albus_Dumbledore’s brother Aberforth_Dumbledore, only time i ever met him, strange bloke … that’s dorcas meadowes, voldemort killed her personally … Sirius_Black, when he still had short hair … and … there you go, thought that would interest you!’ Harry_Potter’s heart turned over. his mother and father were beaming up at him, sitting on either side of a small, watery-eyed man whom Harry_Potter recognised at once as Peter_Pettigrew, the one who had betrayed his parents’ whereabouts to voldemort and so helped to bring about their deaths. ‘eh?’ said moody. Harry_Potter looked up into moody’s heavily scarred and pitted face. evidently moody was under the impression he had just given Harry_Potter a bit of a treat. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, once again attempting to grin. ‘er … listen, i’ve just remembered, i haven’t packed my …’ he was spared the trouble of inventing an object he had not packed. Sirius_Black had just said, ‘what’s that you’ve got there, Alastor_Moody?’ and moody had turned towards him. Harry_Potter crossed the kitchen, slipped through the door and up the stairs before anyone could call him back. he did not know why it had been such a shock; he had seen pictures of his parents before, after all, and he had met Peter_Pettigrew … but to have them sprung on him like that, when he was least expecting it … no one would like that, he thought angrily … and then, to see them surrounded by all those other happy faces … benjy fenwick, who had been found in bits, and Gideon_Crumb prewett, who had died like a hero, and the longbottoms, who had been tortured into madness … all waving happily out of the photograph forever more, not knowing that they were doomed … well, moody might find that interesting … he, Harry_Potter, found it disturbing … Harry_Potter tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf-heads, glad to be on his own again, but as he approached the first landing he heard noises. someone was sobbing in the drawing room. ‘hello?’ Harry_Potter said. there was no answer but the sobbing continued. he climbed the remaining stairs two at a time, walked across the landing and opened the drawing-room door. someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her hand, her whole body shaking with sobs. sprawled on the dusty old carpet in a patch of moonlight, clearly dead, was ron. all the air seemed to vanish from Harry_Potter’s lungs; he felt as though he were falling through the floor; his brain turned icy cold –Ronald_Weasleydead, no, it couldn’t be – but wait a moment, it couldn’t be –Ronald_Weasleywas downstairs – ‘mrs weasley?’ Harry_Potter croaked. ‘r – r – riddikulus!’ mrs weasley sobbed, pointing her shaking wand at ron’s body. crack. ron’s body turned into William_Weasley’s, spread-eagled on his back, his eyes wide open and empty. mrs weasley sobbed harder than ever. ‘r – riddikulus!’ she sobbed again. crack. mr weasley’s body replaced William_Weasley’s, his glasses askew, a trickle of blood running down his face. ‘no!’ mrs weasley moaned.  ‘no …  riddikulus! riddikulus! riddikulus!’ crack. dead twins. crack. dead Percy_Weasley. crack. dead Harry_Potter … ‘mrs weasley, just get out of here!’ shouted Harry_Potter, staring down at his own dead body on the floor. ‘let someone else –’ ‘what’s going on?’ lupin had come running into the room, closely followed by Sirius_Black, with moody stumping along behind them. lupin looked from mrs weasley to the dead Harry_Potter on the floor and seemed to underStanley_Shunpiked in an inStanley_Shunpiket. pulling out his own wand, he said, very firmly and clearly: ‘riddikulus!’ Harry_Potter’s body vanished. a silvery orb hung in the air over the spot where it had lain. lupin waved his wand once more and the orb vanished in a puff of smoke. ‘oh – oh – oh!’ gulped mrs weasley, and she broke into a storm of crying, her face in her hands. ‘Molly_Weasley,’ said lupin bleakly, walking over to her. ‘Molly_Weasley, don’t …’ next second, she was sobbing her heart out on lupin’s shoulder. ‘Molly_Weasley, it was just a boggart,’ he said soothingly, patting her on the head. ‘just a stupid boggart …’ ‘i see them d – d – dead all the time!’ mrs weasley moaned into his shoulder. ‘all the t – t – time! i d – d – dream about it …’ Sirius_Black was staring at the patch of carpet where the boggart, pretending to be Harry_Potter’s body, had lain. moody was looking at Harry_Potter, who avoided his gaze. he had a funny feeling moody’s Magic_goblinal eye had followed him all the way out of the kitchen. ‘d – d – don’t tell Arthur_Weasley,’ mrs weasley was gulping now, mopping her eyes frantically with her cuffs. ‘i d – d – don’t want him to know … being silly …’ lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her nose. ‘Harry_Potter, i’m so sorry. what must you think of me?’ she said shakily. ‘not even able to get rid of a boggart …’ ‘don’t be stupid,’ said Harry_Potter, trying to smile. ‘i’m just s – s – so worried,’ she said, tears spilling out of her eyes again. ‘half the f – f – family’s in the order, it’ll b – b – be a miracle if we all come through this … and p – p – Percy_Weasley’s not talking to us … what if something d – d – dreadful happens and we’ve never m – m – made it up with him? and what’s going to happen if Arthur_Weasley and i get killed, who’s g – g – going to look afterRonald_Weasleyand Ginevra_Weasley?’ ‘Molly_Weasley, that’s enough,’ said lupin firmly. ‘this isn’t like last time. the order is better prepared, we’ve got a head start, we know what voldemort’s up to –’ mrs weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name. ‘oh, Molly_Weasley, come on, it’s about time you got used to hearing his name – look, i can’t promise no one’s going to get hurt, nobody can promise that, but we’re much better off than we were last time. you weren’t in the order then, you don’t underStanley_Shunpiked. last time we were outnumbered twenty to one by the death eaters and they were picking us off one by one …’ Harry_Potter thought of the photograph again, of his parents’ beaming faces. he knew moody was still watching him. ‘don’t worry about Percy_Weasley,’ said Sirius_Black abruptly. ‘he’ll come round. it’s only a matter of time before voldemort moves into the open; once he does, the whole ministry’s going to be begging us to forgive them. and i’m not sure i’ll be accepting their apology,’ he added bitterly. ‘and as for who’s going to look afterRonald_Weasleyand Ginevra_Weasley if you and Arthur_Weasley died,’ said lupin, smiling slightly, ‘what do you think we’d do, let them starve?’ mrs weasley smiled tremulously. ‘being silly,’ she muttered again, mopping her eyes. but Harry_Potter, closing his bedroom door behind him some ten minutes later, could not think mrs weasley silly. he could still see his parents beaming up at him from the tattered old photograph, unaware that their lives, like so many of those around them, were drawing to a close. the image of the boggart posing as the corpse of each member of mrs weasley’s family in turn kept flashing before his eyes. without warning, the scar on his forehead seared with pain again and his stomach churned horribly. ‘cut it out,’ he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the pain receded. ‘first sign of madness, talking to your own head,’ said a sly voice from the empty picture on the wall. Harry_Potter ignored it. he felt older than he had ever felt in his life and it seemed extraordinary to him that barely an hour ago he had been worried about a joke shop and who had got a prefect’s badge. 