— chapter thirty-eight — the second war begins he who must not be named returns ‘in a brief statement on friday night, minister for Magic_goblin Cornelius_Fudge fudge confirmed that he who must not be named has returned to this country and is once more active. ‘“it is with great regret that i must confirm that the wizard styling himself lord – well, you know who i mean – is alive and among us again,” said fudge, looking tired and flustered as he addressed reporters. “it is with almost equal regret that we report the mass revolt of the dementors of azkaban, who have shown themselves averse to continuing in the ministry’s employ. we believe the dementors are currently taking direction from lord – thingy. ‘“we urge the Magic_goblinal population to remain vigilant. the ministry is currently publishing guides to elementary home and personal defence which will be delivered free to all wizarding homes within the coming month.” ‘the minister’s statement was met with dismay and alarm from the wizarding community, which as recently as last wednesday was receiving ministry assurances that there was “no truth whatsoever in these persistent rumours that Tom_Riddle is operating amongst us once more”. ‘details of the events that led to the ministry turnaround are still hazy, though it is believed that he who must not be named and a select band of followers (known as death eaters) gained entry to the ministry of Magic_goblin itself on thursday evening. ‘Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore, newly reinstated headmaster of hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, reinstated member of the international the confederation of wizards and reinstated chief warlock of wizengamot, has so far been unavailable for comment. he has insisted over the past year that Tom_Riddle is not dead, as was widely Hope_Howelld       and believed, but is recruiting followers once more for a fresh attempt to seize power. meanwhile, the “boy who lived” – ‘there you are, Harry_Potter, i knew they’d drag you into it somehow,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking over the top of the paper at him. they were in the hospital wing. Harry_Potter was sitting on the end of ron’s bed and they were both listening to Hermione_Granger read the front page of the sunday prophet. Ginevra_Weasley, whose ankle had been mended in a trice by madam pomfrey, was curled up at the foot of Hermione_Granger’s bed; Neville_Longbottom, whose nose had likewise been returned to its normal size and shape, was in a chair between the two beds; and Luna_Lovegood, who had dropped in to visit, clutching the latest edition of the quibbler, was reading the magazine upside-down and apparently not taking in a word Hermione_Granger was saying. ‘he’s the “boy who lived” again now, though, isn’t he?’ saidRonald_Weasleydarkly. ‘not such a deluded show-off any more, eh?’ he helped himself to a handful of chocolate frogs from the immense pile on his bedside cabinet, threw a few to Harry_Potter, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom and ripped off the wrapper of his own with his teeth. there were still deep welts on his forearms where the brain’s tentacles had wrapped around him. according to madam pomfrey, thoughts could leave deeper scarring than almost anything else, though since she had started applying copious amounts of dr ubbly’s oblivious unction there seemed to have been some improvement. ‘yes, they’re very complimentary about you now, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, scanning down the article. ‘“a lone voice of truth … Percy_Weasleyived as unbalanced, yet never wavered in his story … forced to bear ridicule and slander …” hmmm,’ she said, frowning, ‘i notice they don’t mention the fact that it was them doing all the ridiculing and slandering in the prophet …’ she winced slightly and put a hand to her ribs. the curse dolohov had used on her, though less effective than it would have been had he been able to say the incantation aloud, had nevertheless caused, in madam pomfrey’s words, ‘quite enough damage to be going on with’. Hermione_Granger was having to take ten different types of potion every day, was improving greatly, and was already bored with the hospital wing. ‘Tom_Riddle’s last attempt to take over, pages two to four, what the ministry should have told us, page five, why nobody listened to Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore, pages six to eight, exclusive interview with Harry_Potter potter, page nine … well,’ said Hermione_Granger, folding up the newspaper and throwing it aside, ‘it’s certainly given them lots to write about. and that interview with Harry_Potter isn’t exclusive, it’s the one that was in the quibbler months ago …’  ‘daddy sold it to them,’ said Luna_Lovegood vaguely, turning a page of the quibbler. ‘he got a very good price for it, too, so we’re going to go on an expedition to sweden this summer to see if we can catch a crumple-horned snorkack.’ Hermione_Granger seemed to struggle with herself for a moment, then said, ‘that sounds lovely.’ Ginevra_Weasley caught Harry_Potter’s eye and looked away quickly, grinning. ‘so, anyway,’ said Hermione_Granger, sitting up a little straighter and wincing again, ‘what’s going on in school?’ ‘well, flitwick’s got rid of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s swamp,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, ‘he did it in about three seconds. but he left a tiny patch under the window and he’s roped it off –’ ‘why?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking startled. ‘oh, he just says it was a really good bit of Magic_goblin,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, shrugging. ‘i think he left it as a monument to Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley,’ said ron, through a mouthful of chocolate. ‘they sent me all these, you know,’ he told Harry_Potter, pointing at the small mountain of frogs beside him. ‘must be doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?’ Hermione_Granger looked rather disapproving and asked, ‘so has all the trouble stopped now Albus_Dumbledore’s back?’ ‘yes,’ said Neville_Longbottom, ‘everything’s settled right back to normal.’ ‘i s’pose filch is happy, is he?’ asked ron, propping a chocolate frog card featuring Albus_Dumbledore against his water jug. ‘not at all,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘he’s really, really miserable, actually …’ she lowered her voice to a whisper. ‘he keeps saying umbridge was the best thing that ever happened to hogwarts …’ all six of them looked around. professor umbridge was lying in a bed opposite them, gazing up at the ceiling. Albus_Dumbledore had strode alone into the forest to rescue her from the centaurs; how he had done it – how he had emerged from the trees supporting professor umbridge without so much as a scratch on him – nobody knew, and umbridge was certainly not telling. since she had returned to the castle she had not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single word. nobody really knew what was wrong with her, either. her usually neat mousy hair was very untidy and there were still bits of twigs and leaves in it, but otherwise she seemed to be quite unscathed. ‘madam pomfrey says she’s just in shock,’ whispered Hermione_Granger. ‘sulking, more like,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,’ said ron, and with his tongue he made soft clip-clopping noises. umbridge sat bolt upright, looking around wildly. ‘anything wrong, professor?’ called madam pomfrey, poking her head around her office door. ‘no … no …’ said umbridge, sinking back into her pillows. ‘no, i must have been dreaming …’ Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley muffled their laughter in the bedclothes. ‘speaking of centaurs,’ said Hermione_Granger, when she had recovered a little, ‘who’s divination teacher now? is Firenze staying?’ ‘he’s got to,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘the other centaurs won’t take him back, will they?’ ‘it looks like he and trelawney are both going to teach,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘bet Albus_Dumbledore wishes he could’ve got rid of trelawney for good,’ said ron, now munching on his fourteenth frog. ‘mind you, the whole subject’s useless if you ask me, Firenze isn’t a lot better …’ ‘how can you say that?’ Hermione_Granger demanded. ‘after we’ve just found out that there are real prophecies?’ Harry_Potter’s heart began to race. he had not told ron, Hermione_Granger or anyone else what the prophecy had contained. Neville_Longbottom had told them it had smashed while Harry_Potter was pulling him up the steps in the death room and Harry_Potter had not yet corrected this impression. he was not ready to see their expressions when he told them that he must be either murderer or victim, there was no other way … ‘it is a pity it broke,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly, shaking her head. ‘yeah, it is,’ said ron. ‘still, at least Tom_Riddle never found out what was in it either – where are you going?’ he added, looking both surprised and disappointed as Harry_Potter stood up. ‘er – Rubeus_Hagrid’s,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you know, he just got back and i promised i’d go down and see him and tell him how you two are.’ ‘oh, all right then,’ saidRonald_Weasleygrumpily, looking out of the dormitory window at the patch of bright blue sky beyond. ‘wish we could come.’ ‘say hello to him for us!’ called Hermione_Granger, as Harry_Potter proceeded down the ward. ‘and ask him what’s happening about … about his little friend!’ Harry_Potter gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard and understood as he left the dormitory. the castle seemed very quiet even for a sunday. everybody was clearly out in the sunny grounds, enjoying the end of their exams and the prospect of a last few days of term unhampered by revision or homework. Harry_Potter walked slowly along the deserted corridor, peering out of windows as he went; he could see people messing around in the air over the quidditch pitch and a couple of students swimming in the lake, accompanied by the giant squid. he was finding it hard to decide whether he wanted to be with people or not; whenever he was in company he wanted to get away and whenever he was alone he wanted company. he thought he might really go and visit Rubeus_Hagrid, though, as he had not talked to him properly since he’d returned … Harry_Potter had just descended the last marble step into the entrance hall when malfoy, crabbe and Goyle emerged from a door on the right that Harry_Potter knew led down to the slytherin common room. Harry_Potter stopped dead; so did malfoy and the others. the only sounds were the shouts, laughter and splashes drifting into the hall from the grounds through the open front doors. malfoy glanced around – Harry_Potter knew he was checking for signs of teachers – then he looked back at Harry_Potter and said in a low voice, ‘you’re dead, potter.’ Harry_Potter raised his eyebrows. ‘funny,’ he said, ‘you’d think i’d have stopped walking around …’ malfoy looked angrier than Harry_Potter had ever seen him; he felt a kind of detached satisfaction at the sight of his pale, pointed face contorted with rage. ‘you’re going to pay,’ said malfoy, in a voice barely louder than a whisper. ‘i’m going to make you pay for what you’ve done to my father …’ ‘well, i’m terrified now,’ said Harry_Potter sarcastically. ‘i s’pose lord voldemort’s just a warm-up act compared to you three – what’s the matter?’ he added, for malfoy, crabbe and Goyle had all looked stricken at the sound of the name. ‘he’s a mate of your dad, isn’t he? not scared of him, are you?’ ‘you think you’re such a big man, potter,’ said malfoy, advancing now, crabbe and Goyle flanking him. ‘you wait. i’ll have you. you can’t land my father in prison –’ ‘i thought i just had,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘the dementors have left azkaban,’ said malfoy quietly. ‘dad and the others’ll be out in no time …’ ‘yeah, i expect they will,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘still, at least everyone knows what scumbags they are now –’ malfoy’s hand flew towards his wand, but Harry_Potter was too quick for him; he had drawn his own wand before malfoy’s fingers had even entered the pocket of his robes. ‘potter!’ the voice rang across the entrance hall. snape had emerged from the staircase leading down to his office and at the sight of him Harry_Potter felt a great rush of hatred beyond anything he felt towards malfoy … whatever Albus_Dumbledore said, he would never forgive snape … never … ‘what are you doing, potter?’ said snape, as coldly as ever, as he strode over to the four of them. ‘i’m trying to decide what curse to use on malfoy, sir,’ said Harry_Potter fiercely. snape stared at him. ‘put that wand away at once,’ he said curtly. ‘ten points from gryff—’ snape looked towards the giant hour-glasses on the walls and gave a sneering smile. ‘ah. i see there are no longer any points left in the gryffindor hour-glass to take away. in that case, potter, we will simply have to –’ ‘add some more?’ professor Minerva_McGonagall had just stumped up the stone steps into the castle; she was carrying a tartan carpetbag in one hand and leaning heavily on a walking stick with her other, but otherwise looked quite well. ‘professor Minerva_McGonagall!’ said snape, striding forwards. ‘out of st mungo’s, i see!’ ‘yes, professor snape,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, shrugging off her travelling cloak, ‘i’m quite as good as new. you two – crabbe – Goyle –’ she beckoned them forwards imperiously and they came, shuffling their large feet and looking awkward. ‘here,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, thrusting her carpetbag into crabbe’s chest and her cloak into Goyle’s, ‘take these up to my office for me.’ they turned and stumped away up the marble staircase. ‘right then,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, looking up at the hourglasses on the wall. ‘well, i think potter and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for alerting the world to the return of Tom_Riddle! what say you, professor snape?’ ‘what?’ snapped snape, though Harry_Potter knew he had heard perfectly well. ‘oh – well – i suppose …’ ‘so that’s fifty each for potter, the two weasleys, longbottom and miss granger,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, and a shower of rubies fell down into the bottom bulb of gryffindor’s hour-glass as she spoke. ‘oh – and fifty for miss lovegood, i suppose,’ she added, and a number of sapphires fell into ravenclaw’s glass. ‘now, you wanted to take ten from mr potter, i think, professor snape – so there we are …’ a few rubies retreated into the upper bulb, leaving a respectable amount below nevertheless. ‘well, potter, malfoy, i think you ought to be outside on a glorious day like this,’ professor Minerva_McGonagall continued briskly. Harry_Potter did not need telling twice; he thrust his wand back inside his robes and headed straight for the front doors without another glance at snape and malfoy. the hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across the lawns towards Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. students lying around on the grass sunbathing, talking, reading the sunday prophet and eating sweets, looked up at him as he passed; some called out to him, or else waved, clearly eager to show that they, like the prophet, had decided he was something of a hero. Harry_Potter said nothing to any of them. he had no idea how much they knew of what had happened three days ago, but he had so far avoided being questioned and preferred to keep it that way. he thought at first when he knocked on Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin door that he was out, but then Fang came charging around the corner and almost bowled him over with the enthusiasm of his welcome. Rubeus_Hagrid, it transpired, was picking runner beans in his back garden. ‘all righ’, Harry_Potter!’ he said, beaming, when Harry_Potter approached the fence. ‘come in, come in, we’ll have a cup o’ dandelion juice … ‘how’s things?’ Rubeus_Hagrid asked him, as they settled down at his wooden table with a glass apiece of iced juice. ‘yeh – er – feelin’ all righ’, are yeh?’ Harry_Potter knew from the look of concern on Rubeus_Hagrid’s face that he was not referring to Harry_Potter’s physical well-being. ‘i’m fine,’ Harry_Potter said quickly, because he could not bear to discuss the thing that he knew was in Rubeus_Hagrid’s mind. ‘so, where’ve you been?’ ‘bin hidin’ out in the mountains,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘up in a cave, like Sirius_Black did when he –’ Rubeus_Hagrid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at Harry_Potter, and took a long draught of juice. ‘anyway, back now,’ he said feebly. ‘you – you look better,’ said Harry_Potter, who was determined to keep the conversation moving away from Sirius_Black. ‘wha’?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, raising a massive hand and feeling his face. ‘oh – oh yeah. well, Grawpy’s loads better behaved now, loads. seemed right pleased ter see me when i got back, ter tell yeh the truth. he’s a good lad, really … i’ve bin thinkin’ abou’ tryin’ ter find him a lady friend, actually …’ Harry_Potter would normally have tried to persuade Rubeus_Hagrid out of this idea at once; the prospect of a second giant taking up residence in the forest, possibly even wilder and more brutal than Grawp, was positively alarming, but somehow Harry_Potter could not muster the energy necessary to argue the point. he was starting to wish he was alone again, and with the idea of hastening his departure he took several large gulps of his dandelion juice, half-emptying his glass. ‘ev’ryone knows yeh’ve bin tellin’ the truth now, Harry_Potter,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid softly and unexpectedly. ‘tha’s gotta be better, hasn’ it?’ Harry_Potter shrugged. ‘look …’ Rubeus_Hagrid leaned towards him across the table, ‘i knew Sirius_Black longer ’n yeh did … he died in battle, an’ tha’s the way he’d’ve wanted ter go –’ ‘he didn’t want to go at all!’ said Harry_Potter angrily. Rubeus_Hagrid bowed his great shaggy head. ‘nah, i don’ reckon he did,’ he said quietly. ‘but still, Harry_Potter … he was never one ter sit aroun’ at home an’ let other people do the fightin’. he couldn’ve lived with himself if he hadn’ gone ter help –’ Harry_Potter leapt up. ‘i’ve got to go and visitRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger in the hospital wing,’ he said mechanically. ‘oh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking rather upset. ‘oh … all righ’ then, Harry_Potter … take care o’ yerself then, an’ drop back in if yeh’ve got a mo …’ ‘yeah … right …’ Harry_Potter crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open; he was out in the sunshine again before Rubeus_Hagrid had finished saying goodbye, and walking away across the lawn. once again, people called out to him as he passed. he closed his eyes for a few moments, wishing they would all vanish, that he could open his eyes and find himself alone in the grounds … a few days ago, before his exams had finished and he had seen the vision voldemort had planted in his mind, he would have given almost anything for the wizarding world to know he had been telling the truth, for them to believe that voldemort was back, and to know that he was neither a liar nor mad. now, however … he walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its bank, sheltered from the gaze of passers-by behind a tangle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleaming water, thinking … perhaps the reason he wanted to be alone was because he had felt isolated from everybody since his talk with Albus_Dumbledore. an invisible barrier separated him from the rest of the world. he was – he had always been – a marked man. it was just that he had never really understood what that meant … and yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the terrible weight of grief dragging at him, with the loss of Sirius_Black so raw and fresh inside, he could not muster any great sense of fear. it was sunny, and the grounds around him were full of laughing people, and even though he felt as diStanley_Shunpiket from them as though he belonged to a different race, it was still very hard to believe as he sat here that his life must include, or end in, murder … he sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, trying not to think about his godfather or to remember that it was directly across from here, on the opposite bank, that Sirius_Black had once collapsed trying to fend off a hundred dementors … the sun had set before he realised he was cold. he got up and returned to the castle, wiping his face on his sleeve as he went. *Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger left the hospital wing completely cured three days before the end of term. Hermione_Granger kept showing signs of wanting to talk about Sirius_Black, butRonald_Weasleytended to make ‘hushing’ noises every time she mentioned his name. Harry_Potter was still not sure whether or not he wanted to talk about his godfather yet; his wishes varied with his mood. he knew one thing, though: unhappy as he felt at the moment, he would greatly miss hogwarts in a few days’ time when he was back at number four, privet drive. even though he now understood exactly why he had to return there every summer, he did not feel any better about it. indeed, he had never dreaded his return more. professor umbridge left hogwarts the day before the end of term. it seemed she had crept out of the hospital wing during dinnertime, evidently hoping to depart undetected, but unfortunately for her, she met Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do as Fred_Weasley had instructed, and chased her gleefully from the premises whacking her alternately with a walking stick and a sock full of chalk. many students ran out into the entrance hall to watch her running away down the path and the heads of houses tried only half- heartedly to restrain them. indeed, professor Minerva_McGonagall sank back into her chair at the staff table after a few feeble remonstrances and was clearly heard to express a regret that she could not run cheering after umbridge herself, because Peeves had borrowed her walking stick. their last evening at school arrived; most people had finished packing and were already heading down to the end-of-term leaving feast, but Harry_Potter had not even started. ‘just do it tomorrow!’ said ron, who was waiting by the door of their dormitory. ‘come on, i’m starving.’ ‘i won’t be long … look, you go ahead …’ but when the dormitory door closed behind ron, Harry_Potter made no effort to speed up his packing. the very last thing he wanted to do was to attend the leaving feast. he was worried that Albus_Dumbledore would make some reference to him in his speech. he was sure to mention voldemort’s return; he had talked to them about it last year, after all … Harry_Potter pulled some crumpled robes out of the very bottom of his trunk to make way for folded ones and, as he did so, noticed a badly wrapped package lying in a corner of it. he could not think what it was doing there. he bent down, pulled it out from underneath his trainers and examined it. he realised what it was within seconds. Sirius_Black had given it to him just inside the front door of number twelve grimmauld place. ‘use it if you need me, all right?’ Harry_Potter sank down on to his bed and unwrapped the package. out fell a small, square mirror. it looked old; it was certainly dirty. Harry_Potter held it up to his face and saw his own reflection looking back at him. he turned the mirror over. there on the reverse side was a scribbled note from Sirius_Black. this is a two-way mirror, i’ve got the other one of the pair. if you need to speak to me, just say my name into it; you’ll appear in my mirror and i’ll be able to talk in yours. James_Potter_I and i used to use them when we were in separate detentions. Harry_Potter’s heart began to race. he remembered seeing his dead parents in the mirror of erised four years ago. he was going to be able to talk to Sirius_Black again, right now, he knew it – he looked around to make sure there was nobody else there; the dormitory was quite empty. he looked back at the mirror, raised it in front of his face with trembling hands and said, loudly and clearly, ‘Sirius_Black.’ his breath misted the surface of the glass. he held the mirror even closer, excitement flooding through him, but the eyes blinking back at him through the fog were definitely his own. he wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that every syllable rang clearly through the room:   ‘Sirius_Black black!’ nothing happened. the frustrated face looking back out of the mirror was still, definitely, his own … Sirius_Black didn’t have his mirror on him when he went through the archway, said a small voice in Harry_Potter’s head. that’s why it’s not working … Harry_Potter remained quite still for a moment, then hurled the mirror back into the trunk where it shattered. he had been convinced, for a whole, shining minute, that he was going to see Sirius_Black, talk to him again … disappointment was burning in his throat; he got up and began throwing his things pell-mell into the trunk on top of the broken mirror – but then an idea struck him … a better idea than a mirror … a much bigger, more important idea … how had he never thought of it before – why had he never asked? he was sprinting out of the dormitory and down the spiral staircase, hitting the walls as he ran and barely noticing; he hurtled across the empty common room, through the portrait hole and off along the corridor, ignoring the Fat_Lady, who called after him: ‘the feast is about to start, you know, you’re cutting it very fine!’ but Harry_Potter had no intention of going to the feast … how could it be that the place was full of ghosts whenever you didn’t need one, yet now … he ran down staircases and along corridors and met nobody either alive or dead. they were all, clearly, in the great hall. outside his charms classroom he came to a halt, panting and thinking disconsolately that he would have to wait until later, until after the end of the feast … but just as he had given up Hope_Howell, he saw it – a translucent somebody drifting across the end of the corridor. ‘hey – hey, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington! Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington!’ the ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, revealing the extravagantly plumed hat and dangerously wobbling head of sir Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington de mimsy- porpington. ‘good evening,’ he said, withdrawing the rest of his body from the solid stone and smiling at Harry_Potter. ‘i am not the only one who is late, then? though,’ he sighed, ‘in a rather different sense, of course …’ ‘Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, can i ask you something?’ a most peculiar expression stole over Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s face as he inserted a finger in the stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a little straighter, apparently to give himself thinking time. he desisted only when his partially severed neck seemed about to give way completely. ‘er – now, Harry_Potter?’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, looking discomfited. ‘can’t it wait until after the feast?’ ‘no – Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington – please,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i really need to talk to you. can we go in here?’ Harry_Potter opened the door of the nearest classroom and Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington sighed. ‘oh, very well,’ he said, looking resigned. ‘i can’t pretend i haven’t been expecting it.’ Harry_Potter was holding the door open for him, but he drifted through the wall instead. ‘expecting what?’ Harry_Potter asked, as he closed the door. ‘you to come and find me,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, now gliding over to the window and looking out at the darkening grounds. ‘it happens, sometimes … when somebody has suffered a … loss.’ ‘well,’ said Harry_Potter, refusing to be deflected. ‘you were right, i’ve – i’ve come to find you.’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington said nothing. ‘it’s –’ said Harry_Potter, who was finding this more awkward than he had anticipated, ‘it’s just – you’re dead. but you’re still here, aren’t you?’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds. ‘that’s right, isn’t it?’ Harry_Potter urged him. ‘you died, but i’m talking to you … you can walk around hogwarts and everything, can’t you?’ ‘yes,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington quietly, ‘i walk and talk, yes.’ ‘so, you came back, didn’t you?’ said Harry_Potter urgently. ‘people can come back, right? as ghosts. they don’t have to disappear completely. well?’ he added impatiently, when Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington continued to say nothing. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington hesitated, then said, ‘not everyone can come back as a ghost.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘only … only wizards.’ ‘oh,’ said Harry_Potter, and he almost laughed with relief. ‘well, that’s ok then, the person i’m asking about is a wizard. so he can come back, right?’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington turned away from the window and looked mournfully at Harry_Potter. ‘he won’t come back.’ ‘who?’ ‘Sirius_Black black,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘but you did!’ said Harry_Potter angrily. ‘you came back – you’re dead and you didn’t disappear –’ ‘wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the earth, to walk palely where their living selves once trod,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington miserably. ‘but very few wizards choose that path.’ ‘why not?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘anyway – it doesn’t matter – Sirius_Black won’t care if it’s unusual, he’ll come back, i know he will!’ and so strong was his belief, Harry_Potter actually turned his head to check the door, sure, for a split second, that he was going to see Sirius_Black, pearly-white and transparent but beaming, walking through it towards him. ‘he will not come back,’ repeated Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘he will have … gone on.’ ‘what d’you mean, “gone on”?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘gone on where? listen – what happens when you die, anyway? where do you go? why doesn’t everyone come back? why isn’t this place full of ghosts? why –?’ ‘i cannot answer,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘you’re dead, aren’t you?’ said Harry_Potter exasperatedly. ‘who can answer better than you?’ ‘i was afraid of death,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington softly. ‘i chose to remain behind. i sometimes wonder whether i oughtn’t to have … well, that is neither here nor there … in fact, i am neither here nor there …’ he gave a small sad chuckle. ‘i know nothing of the secrets of death, Harry_Potter, for i chose my feeble imitation of life instead. i believe learned wizards study the matter in the department of mysteries –’ ‘don’t talk to me about that place!’ said Harry_Potter fiercely. ‘i am sorry not to have been more help,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington gently. ‘well … well, do excuse me … the feast, you know …’ and he left the room, leaving Harry_Potter there alone, gazing blankly at the wall through which Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington had disappeared. Harry_Potter felt almost as though he had lost his godfather all over again in losing the Hope_Howell that he might be able to see or speak to him once more. he walked slowly and miserably back up through the empty castle, wondering whether he would ever feel cheerful again. he had turned the corner towards the Fat_Lady’s corridor when he saw somebody up ahead fastening a note to a board on the wall. a second glance showed him it was Luna_Lovegood. there were no good hiding places nearby, she was bound to have heard his footsteps, and in any case, Harry_Potter could hardly muster the energy to avoid anyone at the moment. ‘hello,’ said Luna_Lovegood vaguely, glancing around at him as she stepped back from the notice. ‘how come you’re not at the feast?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘well, i’ve lost most of my possessions,’ said Luna_Lovegood serenely. ‘people take them and hide them, you know. but as it’s the last night, i really do need them back, so i’ve been putting up signs.’ she gestured towards the noticeboard, upon which, sure enough, she had pinned a list of all her missing books and clothes, with a plea for their return. an odd feeling Rose_Zeller in Harry_Potter; an emotion quite different from the anger and grief that had filled him since Sirius_Black’s death. it was a few moments before he realised that he was feeling sorry for Luna_Lovegood. ‘how come people hide your stuff?’ he asked her, frowning. ‘oh … well …’ she shrugged. ‘i think they think i’m a bit odd, you know. some people call me “loony” lovegood, actually.’ Harry_Potter looked at her and the new feeling of pity intensified rather painfully. ‘that’s no reason for them to take your things,’ he said flatly. ‘d’you want help finding them?’ ‘oh, no,’ she said, smiling at him. ‘they’ll come back, they always do in the end. it was just that i wanted to pack tonight. anyway … why aren’t you at the feast?’ Harry_Potter shrugged. ‘just didn’t feel like it.’ ‘no,’ said Luna_Lovegood, observing him with those oddly misty, protuberant eyes. ‘i don’t suppose you do. that man the death eaters killed was your godfather, wasn’t he? Ginevra_Weasley told me.’ Harry_Potter nodded curtly, but found that for some reason he did not mind Luna_Lovegood talking about Sirius_Black. he had just remembered that she, too, could see Thestrals. ‘have you …’ he began. ‘i mean, who … has anyone you’ve known ever died?’ ‘yes,’ said Luna_Lovegood simply, ‘my mother. she was a quite extraordinary witch, you know, but she did like to experiment and one of her spells went rather badly wrong one day. i was nine.’ ‘i’m sorry,’ Harry_Potter mumbled. ‘yes, it was rather horrible,’ said Luna_Lovegood conversationally. ‘i still feel very sad about it sometimes. but i’ve still got dad. and anyway, it’s not as though i’ll never see mum again, is it?’ ‘er – isn’t it?’ said Harry_Potter uncertainly. she shook her head in disbelief. ‘oh, come on. you heard them, just behind the veil, didn’t you?’ ‘you mean …’ ‘in that room with the archway. they were just lurking out of sight, that’s all. you heard them.’ they looked at each other. Luna_Lovegood was smiling slightly. Harry_Potter did not know what to say, or to think; Luna_Lovegood believed so many extraordinary things … yet he had been sure he had heard voices behind the veil, too. ‘are you sure you don’t want me to help you look for your stuff?’ he said. ‘oh, no,’ said Luna_Lovegood. ‘no, i think i’ll just go down and have some pudding and wait for it all to turn up … it always does in the end … well, have a nice holiday, Harry_Potter.’ ‘yeah … yeah, you too.’ she walked away from him and, as he watched her go, he found that the terrible weight in his stomach seemed to have lessened slightly. * the journey home on the hogwarts express next day was eventful in several ways. firstly, malfoy, crabbe and Goyle, who had clearly been waiting all week for the opportunity to strike without teacher witnesses, attempted to ambush Harry_Potter halfway down the train as he made his way back from the toilet. the attack might have succeeded had it not been for the fact that they unwittingly chose to stage the attack right outside a compartment full of da members, who saw what was happening through the glass and Rose_Zeller as one to rush to Harry_Potter’s aid. by the time Ernest_Prangmacmillan, Hannah_Abbott abbott, Susan_Bones bones, Justin_Finch-Fletchley finch-fletchley, Anthony_Goldstein goldstein and Terry_Boot boot had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and jinxes Harry_Potter had taught them, malfoy, crabbe and Goyle resembled nothing so much as three gigantic slugs squeezed into hogwarts uniform as Harry_Potter, Ernest_Prangand Justin_Finch-Fletchley hoisted them into the luggage rack and left them there to ooze. ‘i must say, i’m looking forward to seeing malfoy’s mother’s face when he gets off the train,’ said Ernest_Macmillan, with some satisfaction, as he watched malfoy squirm above him. Ernest_Pranghad never quite got over the indignity of malfoy docking points from hufflepuff during his brief spell as a member of the inquisitorial squad. ‘Goyle’s mum’ll be really pleased, though,’ said ron, who had come to investigate the source of the commotion. ‘he’s loads better-looking now … anyway, Harry_Potter, the food trolley’s just stopped if you want anything …’ Harry_Potter thanked the others and accompaniedRonald_Weasleyback to their compartment, where he bought a large pile of cauldron cakes and pumpkin pasties. Hermione_Granger was reading the daily prophet again, Ginevra_Weasley was doing a quiz in the quibbler and Neville_Longbottom was stroking his mimbulus mimbletonia, which had grown a great deal over the year and now made odd crooning noises when touched. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleywhiled away most of the journey playing wizard chess while Hermione_Granger read out snippets from the prophet. it was now full of articles about how to repel dementors, attempts by the ministry to track down death eaters and hystEric_Munchal letters claiming that the writer had seen lord voldemort walking past their house that very morning … ‘it hasn’t really started yet,’ sighed Hermione_Granger gloomily, folding up the newspaper again. ‘but it won’t be long now …’ ‘hey, Harry_Potter,’ saidRonald_Weasleysoftly, nodding towards the glass window on to the corridor. Harry_Potter looked around.Cho_Changwas passing, accompanied by Marietta_Edgecombe edgecombe, who was wearing a balaclava. his and cho’s eyes met for a moment.Cho_Changblushed and kept walking. Harry_Potter looked back down at the chessboard just in time to see one of his pawns chased off its square by ron’s Knight_with_an_arrow_sticking_out_of_his_forehead. ‘what’s – er – going on with you and her, anyway?’Ronald_Weasleyasked quietly. ‘nothing,’ said Harry_Potter truthfully. ‘i – er – heard she’s going out with someone else now,’ said Hermione_Granger tentatively. Harry_Potter was surprised to find that this information did not hurt at all. wanting to impressCho_Changseemed to belong to a past that was no longer quite connected with him; so much of what he had wanted before Sirius_Black’s death felt that way these days … the week that had elapsed since he had last seen Sirius_Black seemed to have lasted much, much longer; it stretched across two universes, the one with Sirius_Black in it, and the one without. ‘you’re well out of it, mate,’ saidRonald_Weasleyforcefully. ‘i mean, she’s quite good- looking and all that, but you want someone a bit more cheerful.’ ‘she’s probably cheerful enough with someone else,’ said Harry_Potter, shrugging. ‘who’s she with now, anyway?’Ronald_Weasleyasked Hermione_Granger, but it was Ginevra_Weasley who answered. ‘Michael_Corner corner,’ she said. ‘Michael_Corner – but –’ said ron, craning around in his seat to stare at her. ‘but you were going out with him!’ ‘not any more,’ said Ginevra_Weasley resolutely. ‘he didn’t like gryffindor beating ravenclaw at quidditch, and got really sulky, so i ditched him and he ran off to comfortCho_Changinstead.’ she scratched her nose absently with the end of her quill, turned the quibbler upsidedown and began marking her answers.Ronald_Weasleylooked highly delighted. ‘well, i always thought he was a bit of an idiot,’ he said, prodding his queen forwards towards Harry_Potter’s quivering castle. ‘good for you. just choose someone – better – next time.’ he cast Harry_Potter an oddly furtive look as he said it. ‘well, i’ve chosen Dean_Thomas thomas, would you say he’s better?’ asked Ginevra_Weasley vaguely. ‘what?’ shouted ron, upending the chessboard: Crookshanks went plunging after the pieces and Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered and hooted angrily from overhead. as the train slowed down in the approach to king’s cross, Harry_Potter thought he had never wanted to leave it less. he even wondered fleetingly what would happen if he simply refused to get off, but remained stubbornly sitting there until the first of september, when it would take him back to hogwarts. when it finally puffed to a Stanley_Shunpikedstill, however, he lifted down Hedwig’s cage and prepared to drag his trunk from the train as usual. when the ticket inspector signalled to Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger that it was safe to walk through the Magic_goblinal barrier between platforms nine and ten, however, he found a surprise awaiting him on the other side: a group of people Stanley_Shunpikeding there to greet him who he had not expected at all. there was Alastor_Moody moody, looking quite as sinister with his bowler hat pulled low over his Magic_goblinal eye as he would have done without it, his gnarled hands clutching a long staff, his body wrapped in a voluminous travelling cloak. tonks stood just behind him, her bright bubble-gum-pink hair gleaming in the sunlight filtering through the dirty glass of the station ceiling, wearing heavily patched jeans and a bright purple t-shirt bearing the legend the weird sisters. next to tonks was lupin, his face pale, his hair greying, a long and threadbare overcoat covering a shabby jumper and trousers. at the front of the group stood mr and mrs weasley, dressed in their muggle best, and Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who were both wearing brand-new Jack_Sloperets in some lurid green, scaly material. ‘ron, Ginevra_Weasley!’ called mrs weasley, hurrying forwards and hugging her children tightly. ‘oh, and Harry_Potter dear – how are you?’ ‘fine,’ lied Harry_Potter, as she pulled him into a tight embrace. over her shoulder he sawRonald_Weasleygoggling at the twins’ new clothes. ‘what are they supposed to be?’ he asked, pointing at the Jack_Sloperets. ‘finest dragonskin, little bro’,’ said Fred_Weasley, giving his zip a little tweak. ‘business is booming and we thought we’d treat ourselves.’ ‘hello, Harry_Potter,’ said lupin, as mrs weasley let go of Harry_Potter and turned to greet Hermione_Granger. ‘hi,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i didn’t expect … what are you all doing here?’ ‘well,’ said lupin with a slight smile, ‘we thought we might have a little chat with your aunt and uncle before letting them take you home.’ ‘i dunno if that’s a good idea,’ said Harry_Potter at once. ‘oh, i think it is,’ growled moody, who had limped a little closer. ‘that’ll be them, will it, potter?’ he pointed with his thumb over his shoulder; his Magic_goblinal eye was evidently peering through the back of his head and his bowler hat. Harry_Potter leaned an inch or so to the left to see where Alastor_Moody was pointing and there, sure enough, were the three dursleys, who looked positively appalled to see Harry_Potter’s reception committee. ‘ah, Harry_Potter!’ said mr weasley, turning from Hermione_Granger’s parents, who he had just greeted enthusiastically, and who were now taking it in turns to hug Hermione_Granger. ‘well – shall we do it, then?’ ‘yeah, i reckon so, Arthur_Weasley,’ said moody. he and mr weasley took the lead across the station towards the dursleys, who were apparently rooted to the floor. Hermione_Granger disengaged herself gently from her mother to join the group. ‘good afternoon,’ said mr weasley pleasantly to uncle Vernon_Dursley as he came to a halt right in front of him. ‘you might remember me, my name’s Arthur_Weasley weasley.’ as mr weasley had single-handedly demolished most of the dursleys’ living room two years previously, Harry_Potter would have been very surprised if uncle Vernon_Dursley had forgotten him. sure enough, uncle Vernon_Dursley turned a deeper shade of puce and glared at mr weasley, but chose not to say anything, partly, perhaps, because the dursleys were outnumbered two to one. aunt Petunia_Dursley looked both frightened and embarrassed; she kept glancing around, as though terrified somebody she knew would see her in such company. Dudley_Dursley, meanwhile, seemed to be trying to look small and insignificant, a feat at which he was failing extravagantly. ‘we thought we’d just have a few words with you about Harry_Potter,’ said mr weasley, still smiling. ‘yeah,’ growled moody. ‘about how he’s treated when he’s at your place.’ uncle Vernon_Dursley’s moustache seemed to bristle with indignation. possibly because the bowler hat gave him the entirely mistaken impression that he was dealing with a kindred spirit, he addressed himself to moody. ‘i am not aware that it is any of your business what goes on in my house –’ ‘i expect what you’re not aware of would fill several books, dursley,’ growled moody. ‘anyway, that’s not the point,’ interjected tonks, whose pink hair seemed to offend aunt Petunia_Dursley more than all the rest put together, for she closed her eyes rather than look at her. ‘the point is, if we find out you’ve been horrible to Harry_Potter –’ ‘– and make no mistake, we’ll hear about it,’ added lupin pleasantly. ‘yes,’ said mr weasley, ‘even if you won’t let Harry_Potter use the fellytone –’ ‘telephone,’ whispered Hermione_Granger. ‘– yeah, if we get any hint that potter’s been mistreated in any way, you’ll have us to answer to,’ said moody. uncle Vernon_Dursley swelled ominously. his sense of outrage seemed to outweigh even his fear of this bunch of oddballs. ‘are you threatening me, sir?’ he said, so loudly that passers-by actually turned to stare. ‘yes, i am,’ said Alastor_Moody, who seemed rather pleased that uncle Vernon_Dursley had grasped this fact so quickly. ‘and do i look like the kind of man who can be intimidated?’ barked uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘well …’ said moody, pushing back his bowler hat to reveal his sinisterly revolving Magic_goblinal eye. uncle Vernon_Dursley leapt backwards in horror and collided painfully with a luggage trolley. ‘yes, i’d have to say you do, dursley.’ he turned from uncle Vernon_Dursley to Harry_Potter. ‘so, potter … give us a shout if you need us. if we don’t hear from you for three days in a row, we’ll send someone along …’ aunt Petunia_Dursley whimpered piteously. it could not have been plainer that she was thinking of what the neighbours would say if they caught sight of these people marching up the garden path. ‘bye, then, potter,’ said moody, grasping Harry_Potter’s shoulder for a moment with a gnarled hand. ‘take care, Harry_Potter,’ said lupin quietly. ‘keep in touch.’ ‘Harry_Potter, we’ll have you away from there as soon as we can,’ mrs weasley whispered, hugging him again. ‘we’ll see you soon, mate,’ saidRonald_Weasleyanxiously, shaking Harry_Potter’s hand. ‘really soon, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger earnestly. ‘we promise.’ Harry_Potter nodded. he somehow could not find words to tell them what it meant to him, to see them all ranged there, on his side. instead, he smiled, raised a hand in farewell, turned around and led the way out of the station towards the sunlit street, with uncle Vernon_Dursley, aunt Petunia_Dursley and Dudley_Dursley hurrying along in his wake. 