— chapter six — the noble and most ancient house of black mrs weasley followed them upstairs looking grim. ‘i want you all to go straight to bed, no talking,’ she said as they reached the first landing, ‘we’ve got a busy day tomorrow. i expect Ginevra_Weasley’s asleep,’ she added to Hermione_Granger, ‘so try not to wake her up.’ ‘asleep, yeah, right,’ said Fred_Weasley in an undertone, after Hermione_Granger bade them goodnight and they were climbing to the next floor. ‘if Ginevra_Weasley’s not lying awake waiting for Hermione_Granger to tell her everything they said downstairs then i’m a flobberworm …’ ‘all right, ron, Harry_Potter,’ said mrs weasley on the second landing, pointing them into their bedroom. ‘off to bed with you.’ ‘’night,’ Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleysaid to the twins. ‘sleep tight,’ said Fred_Weasley, winking. mrs weasley closed the door behind Harry_Potter with a sharp snap. the bedroom looked, if anything, even danker and gloomier than it had on first sight. the blank picture on the wall was now breathing very slowly and deeply, as though its invisible occupant was asleep. Harry_Potter put on his pyjamas, took off his glasses and climbed into his chilly bed whileRonald_Weasleythrew owl treats up on top of the wardrobe to pacify Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around and rustling their wings restlessly. ‘we can’t let them out to hunt every night,’Ronald_Weasleyexplained as he pulled on his maroon pyjamas. ‘Albus_Dumbledore doesn’t want too many owls swooping around the square, thinks it’ll look suspicious. oh yeah … i forgot …’ he crossed to the door and bolted it. ‘what’re you doing that for?’ ‘Kreacher,’ saidRonald_Weasleyas he turned off the light. ‘first night i was here he came wandering in at three in the morning. trust me, you don’t want to wake up and find him prowling around your room. anyway …’ he got into his bed,    settled down under the covers then turned to look at Harry_Potter in the darkness; Harry_Potter could see his outline by the moonlight filtering in through the grimy window, ‘what d’you reckon?’ Harry_Potter didn’t need to ask whatRonald_Weasleymeant. ‘well, they didn’t tell us much we couldn’t have guessed, did they?’ he said, thinking of all that had been said downstairs. ‘i mean, all they’ve really said is that the order’s trying to stop people joining vol—’ there was a sharp intake of breath from ron. ‘—demort,’ said Harry_Potter firmly. ‘when are you going to start using his name? Sirius_Black and lupin do.’Ronald_Weasleyignored this last comment. ‘yeah, you’re right,’ he said, ‘we already knew nearly everything they told us, from using the extendable ears. the only new bit was –’ crack. ‘ouch!’ ‘keep your voice down, ron, or mum’ll be back up here.’ ‘you two just apparated on my knees!’ ‘yeah, well, it’s harder in the dark.’ Harry_Potter saw the blurred outlines of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley leaping down from ron’s bed. there was a groan of bedsprings and Harry_Potter’s mattress descended a few inches as George_Weasley sat down near his feet. ‘so, got there yet?’ said George_Weasley eagerly. ‘the weapon Sirius_Black mentioned?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘let slip, more like,’ said Fred_Weasley with relish, now sitting next to ron. ‘we didn’t hear about that on the old extendables, did we?’ ‘what d’you reckon it is?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘could be anything,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘but there can’t be anything worse than the avada kedavra curse, can there?’ said ron. ‘what’s worse than death?’ ‘maybe it’s something that can kill loads of people at once,’ suggested George_Weasley. ‘maybe it’s some particularly painful way of killing people,’ saidRonald_Weasleyfearfully. ‘he’s got the cruciatus curse for causing pain,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘he doesn’t need anything more efficient than that.’ there was a pause and Harry_Potter knew that the others, like him, were wondering what horrors this weapon could perpetrate. ‘so who d’you think’s got it now?’ asked George_Weasley. ‘i Hope_Howell it’s our side,’ said ron, sounding slightly nervous. ‘if it is, Albus_Dumbledore’s probably keeping it,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘where?’ saidRonald_Weasleyquickly. ‘hogwarts?’ ‘bet it is!’ said George_Weasley. ‘that’s where he hid the philosopher’s stone.’ ‘a weapon’s going to be a lot bigger than the stone, though!’ said ron. ‘not necessarily,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘yeah, size is no guarantee of power,’ said George_Weasley. ‘look at Ginevra_Weasley.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you’ve never been on the receiving end of one of her bat-bogey hexes, have you?’ ‘shhh!’ said Fred_Weasley, half-rising from the bed. ‘listen!’ they fell silent. footsteps were coming up the stairs. ‘mum,’ said George_Weasley and without further ado there was a loud crack and Harry_Potter felt the weight vanish from the end of his bed. a few seconds later, they heard the floorboard creak outside their door; mrs weasley was plainly listening to check whether or not they were talking. Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. the floorboard creaked again and they heard her heading upstairs to check on Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. ‘she doesn’t trust us at all, you know,’ saidRonald_Weasleyregretfully. Harry_Potter was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; the evening had been so packed with things to think about that he fully expected to lie awake for hours mulling it all over. he wanted to continue talking to ron, but mrs weasley was now creaking back downstairs again, and once she had gone he distinctly heard others making their way upstairs … in fact, many-legged creatures were cantering softly up and down outside the bedroom door, and Rubeus_Hagrid the care of Magic_goblinal creatures teacher was saying, ‘beauties, aren’ they, eh, Harry_Potter? we’ll be studyin’ weapons this term …’ and Harry_Potter saw that the creatures had cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him … he ducked … the next thing he knew, he was curled into a warm ball under his bedclothes and George_Weasley’s loud voice was filling the room. ‘mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs you in the drawing room, there are loads more doxys than she thought and she’s found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa.’ half an hour later Harry_Potter and ron, who had dressed and breakfasted quickly, entered the drawing room, a long, high-ceilinged room on the first floor with olive green walls covered in dirty tapestries. the carpet exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put their foot on it and the long, moss green velvet curtains were buzzing as though swarming with invisible bees. it was around these that mrs weasley, Hermione_Granger, Ginevra_Weasley, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were grouped, all looking rather peculiar as they had each tied a cloth over their nose and mouth. each of them was also holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at the end. ‘cover your faces and take a spray,’ mrs weasley said to Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleythe moment she saw them, pointing to two more bottles of black liquid Stanley_Shunpikeding on a spindle-legged table. ‘it’s doxycide. i’ve never seen an infestation this bad – what that house-elf’s been doing for the last ten years –’ Hermione_Granger’s face was half concealed by a tea towel but Harry_Potter distinctly saw her throw a reproachful look at mrs weasley. ‘Kreacher’s really old, he probably couldn’t manage –’ ‘you’d be surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to, Hermione_Granger,’ said Sirius_Black, who had just entered the room carrying a bloodstained bag of what appeared to be dead rats. ‘i’ve just been feeding Buckbeak,’ he added, in reply to Harry_Potter’s enquiring look. ‘i keep him upstairs in my mother’s bedroom. anyway … this writing desk …’ he dropped the bag of rats into an armchair, then bent over to examine the locked cabinet which, Harry_Potter now noticed for the first time, was shaking slightly. ‘well, Molly_Weasley, i’m pretty sure this is a boggart,’ said Sirius_Black, peering through the keyhole, ‘but perhaps we ought to let Alastor_Moody have a shufti at it before we let it out – knowing my mother, it could be something much worse.’ ‘right you are, Sirius_Black,’ said mrs weasley. they were both speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told Harry_Potter quite plainly that neither had forgotten their disagreement of the night before. a loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, followed at once by the cacophony of screams and wails that had been triggered the previous night by tonks knocking over the umbrella Stanley_Shunpiked. ‘i keep telling them not to ring the doorbell!’ said Sirius_Black exasperatedly, hurrying out of the room. they heard him thundering down the stairs as mrs black’s screeches echoed up through the house once more: ‘stains of dishonour, filthy half-breeds, blood traitors, children of filth …’ ‘close the door, please, Harry_Potter,’ said mrs weasley. Harry_Potter took as much time as he dared to close the drawing-room door; he wanted to listen to what was going on downstairs. Sirius_Black had obviously managed to shut the curtains over his mother’s portrait because she had stopped screaming. he heard Sirius_Black walking down the hall, then the clattering of the chain on the front door, and then a deep voice he recognised as Kingsley_Shacklebolt shacklebolt’s saying, ‘Hestia_Jones’s just relieved me, so she’s got moody’s cloak now, thought i’d leave a report for Albus_Dumbledore …’ feeling mrs weasley’s eyes on the back of his head, Harry_Potter regretfully closed the drawing-room door and rejoined the doxy party. mrs weasley was bending over to check the page on doxys in Gilderoy_Lockhart lockhart’s guide to household pests, which was lying open on the sofa. ‘right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxys bite and their teeth are poisonous. i’ve got a bottle of antidote here, but i’d rather nobody needed it.’ she straightened up, positioned herself squarely in front of the curtains and beckoned them all forward. ‘when i say the word, start spraying immediately,’ she said. ‘they’ll come flying out at us, i expect, but it says on the sprays one good squirt will paralyse them. when they’re immobilised, just throw them in this bucket.’ she stepped carefully out of their line of fire, and raised her own spray. ‘all right – squirt!’ Harry_Potter had been spraying only a few seconds when a fully-grown doxy came soaring out of a fold in the material, shiny beetle-like wings whirring, tiny needle-sharp teeth bared, its fairy-like body covered with thick black hair and its four tiny fists clenched with fury. Harry_Potter caught it full in the face with a blast of doxycide. it froze in midair and fell, with a surprisingly loud thunk, on to the worn carpet below. Harry_Potter picked it up and threw it in the bucket. ‘Fred_Weasley, what are you doing?’ said mrs weasley sharply. ‘spray that at once and throw it away!’ Harry_Potter looked round. Fred_Weasley was holding a struggling doxy between his forefinger and thumb. ‘right-o,’ Fred_Weasley said brightly, spraying the doxy quickly in the face so that it fainted, but the moment mrs weasley’s back was turned he pocketed it with a wink. ‘we want to experiment with doxy venom for our skiving snackboxes,’ George_Weasley told Harry_Potter under his breath. deftly spraying two doxys at once as they soared straight for his nose, Harry_Potter moved closer to George_Weasley and muttered out of the corner of his mouth, ‘what are skiving snackboxes?’ ‘range of sweets to make you ill,’ George_Weasley whispered, keeping a wary eye on mrs weasley’s back. ‘not seriously ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred_Weasley and i have been developing them this summer. they’re double-ended, colour-coded chews. if you eat the orange half of the puking pastilles, you throw up. moment you’ve been rushed out of the lesson for the hospital wing, you swallow the purple half –’ ‘“– which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to pursue the leisure activity of your own choice during an hour that would otherwise have been devoted to unprofitable boredom.” that’s what we’re putting in the adverts, anyway,’ whispered Fred_Weasley, who had edged over out of mrs weasley’s line of vision and was now sweeping a few stray doxys from the floor and adding them to his pocket. ‘but they still need a bit of work. at the moment our testers are having a bit of trouble stopping themselves puking long enough to swallow the purple end.’ ‘testers?’ ‘us,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘we take it in turns. George_Weasley did the fainting fancies – we both tried the nosebleed nougat –’ ‘mum thought we’d been duelling,’ said George_Weasley. ‘joke shop still on, then?’ Harry_Potter muttered, pretending to be adJustin_Finch-Fletchleyg the nozzle on his spray. ‘well, we haven’t had a chance to get premises yet,’ said Fred_Weasley, dropping his voice even lower as mrs weasley mopped her brow with her scarf before returning to the attack, ‘so we’re running it as a mail-order service at the moment. we put advertisements in the daily prophet last week.’ ‘all thanks to you, mate,’ said George_Weasley. ‘but don’t worry … mum hasn’t got a clue. she won’t read the daily prophet any more, ’cause of it telling lies about you and Albus_Dumbledore.’ Harry_Potter grinned. he had forced the weasley twins to take the thousand galleons prize money he had won in the triwizard tournament to help them realise their ambition to open a joke shop, but he was still glad to know that his part in furthering their plans was unknown to mrs weasley. she did not think running a joke shop was a suitable career for two of her sons. the de-doxying of the curtains took most of the morning. it was past midday when mrs weasley finally removed her protective scarf, sank into a sagging armchair and sprang up again with a cry of disgust, having sat on the bag of dead rats. the curtains were no longer buzzing; they hung limp and damp from the intensive spraying. at the foot of them unconscious doxys lay crammed in the bucket beside a bowl of their black eggs, at which Crookshanks was now sniffing and Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were shooting covetous looks. ‘i think we’ll tackle those after lunch.’ mrs weasley pointed at the dusty glass-fronted cabinets Stanley_Shunpikeding on either side of the mantelpiece. they were crammed with an odd assortment of objects: a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes inscribed with languages Harry_Potter could not underStanley_Shunpiked and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crystal bottle with a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry_Potter was quite sure was blood. the clanging doorbell rang again. everyone looked at mrs weasley. ‘stay here,’ she said firmly, snatching up the bag of rats as mrs black’s screeches started up again from down below. ‘i’ll bring up some sandwiches.’ she left the room, closing the door carefully behind her. at once, everyone dashed over to the window to look down on the doorstep. they could see the top of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of precariously balanced cauldrons. ‘MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘what’s he brought all those cauldrons for?’ ‘probably looking for a safe place to keep them,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘isn’t that what he was doing the night he was supposed to be tailing me? picking up dodgy cauldrons?’ ‘yeah, you’re right!’ said Fred_Weasley, as the front door opened; MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher heaved his cauldrons through it and disappeared from view. ‘blimey, mum won’t like that …’ he and George_Weasley crossed to the door and stood beside it, listening intently. mrs black’s screaming had stopped. ‘MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher is talking to Sirius_Black and Kingsley_Shacklebolt,’ Fred_Weasley muttered, frowning with concentration. ‘can’t hear properly … d’you reckon we can risk the extendable ears?’ ‘might be worth it,’ said George_Weasley. ‘i could sneak upstairs and get a pair –’ but at that precise moment there was an explosion of sound from downstairs that rendered extendable ears quite unnecessary. all of them could hear exactly what mrs weasley was shouting at the top of her voice. ‘we are not running a hideout for stolen goods!’ ‘i love hearing mum shouting at someone else,’ said Fred_Weasley, with a satisfied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow mrs weasley’s voice to permeate the room better, ‘it makes such a nice change.’ ‘– completely irresponsible, as if we haven’t got enough to worry about without you dragging stolen cauldrons into the house –’ ‘the idiots are letting her get into her stride,’ said George_Weasley, shaking his head. ‘you’ve got to head her off early otherwise she builds up a head of steam and goes on for hours. and she’s been dying to have a go at MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher ever since he sneaked off when he was supposed to be following you, Harry_Potter – and there goes Sirius_Black’s mum again.’ mrs weasley’s voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from the portraits in the hall. George_Weasley made to shut the door to drown the noise, but before he could do so, a house-elf edged into the room. except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it was completely naked. it looked very old. its skin seemed to be several times too big for it and, though it was bald like all house-elves, there was a quantity of white hair growing out of its large, batlike ears. its eyes were a bloodshot and watery grey and its fleshy nose was large and rather snoutlike. theWinkytook absolutely no notice of Harry_Potter and the rest. acting as though it could not see them, it shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and doggedly, towards the far end of the room, all the while muttering under its breath in a hoarse, deep voice like a bullfrog’s. ‘… smells like a drain and a criminal to boot, but she’s no better, nasty old blood traitor with her brats messing up my mistress’s house, oh, my poor mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they’ve let into her house, what would she say to old Kreacher, oh, the shame of it, mudbloods and werewolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can he do …’ ‘hello, Kreacher,’ said Fred_Weasley very loudly, closing the door with a snap. the house-elf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, and gave a very pronounced and very unconvincing start of surprise. ‘Kreacher did not see young master,’ he said, turning around and bowing to Fred_Weasley. still facing the carpet, he added, perfectly audibly, ‘nasty little brat of a blood traitor it is.’ ‘sorry?’ said George_Weasley. ‘didn’t catch that last bit.’ ‘Kreacher said nothing,’ said the elf, with a second bow to George_Weasley, adding in a clear undertone, ‘and there’s its twin, unnatural little beasts they are.’ Harry_Potter didn’t know whether to laugh or not. theWinkystraightened up, eyeing them all malevolently, and apparently convinced that they could not hear him as he continued to mutter. ‘… and there’s the mudblood, Stanley_Shunpikeding there bold as brass, oh, if my mistress knew, oh, how she’d cry, and there’s a new boy, Kreacher doesn’t know his name. what is he doing here? Kreacher doesn’t know …’ ‘this is Harry_Potter, Kreacher,’ said Hermione_Granger tentatively. ‘Harry_Potter potter.’ Kreacher’s pale eyes widened and he muttered faster and more furiously than ever. ‘the mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend, if Kreacher’s mistress saw him in such company, oh, what would she say –’ ‘don’t call her a mudblood!’ saidRonald_Weasleyand Ginevra_Weasley together, very angrily. ‘it doesn’t matter,’ Hermione_Granger whispered, ‘he’s not in his right mind, he doesn’t know what he’s –’ ‘don’t kid yourself, Hermione_Granger, he knows exactly what he’s saying,’ said Fred_Weasley, eyeing Kreacher with great dislike. Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry_Potter. ‘is it true? is it Harry_Potter potter? Kreacher can see the scar, it must be true, that’s the boy who stopped the dark lord, Kreacher wonders how he did it –’ ‘don’t we all, Kreacher,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘what do you want, anyway?’ George_Weasley asked. Kreacher’s huge eyes darted towards George_Weasley. ‘Kreacher is cleaning,’ he said evasively. ‘a likely story,’ said a voice behind Harry_Potter. Sirius_Black had come back; he was glowering at theWinkyfrom the doorway. the noise in the hall had abated; perhaps mrs weasley and MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher had moved their argument down into the kitchen. at the sight of Sirius_Black, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low bow that flattened his snoutlike nose on the floor. ‘Stanley_Shunpiked up straight,’ said Sirius_Black impatiently. ‘now, what are you up to?’ ‘Kreacher is cleaning,’ theWinkyrepeated. ‘Kreacher lives to serve the noble house of black –’ ‘and it’s getting blacker every day, it’s filthy,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘master always liked his little joke,’ said Kreacher, bowing again, and continuing in an undertone, ‘master was a nasty ungrateful swine who broke his mother’s heart –’ ‘my mother didn’t have a heart, Kreacher,’ snapped Sirius_Black. ‘she kept herself alive out of pure spite.’ Kreacher bowed again as he spoke. ‘whatever master says,’ he muttered furiously. ‘master is not fit to wipe slime from his mother’s boots, oh, my poor mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was –’ ‘i asked you what you were up to,’ said Sirius_Black coldly. ‘every time you show up pretending to be cleaning, you sneak something off to your room so we can’t throw it out.’ ‘Kreacher would never move anything from its proper place in master’s house,’ said the elf, then muttered very fast, ‘mistress would never forgive Kreacher if the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries it’s been in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not let master and the blood traitors and the brats desTroy it –’ ‘i thought it might be that,’ said Sirius_Black, casting a disdainful look at the opposite wall. ‘she’ll have put another permanent sticking charm on the back of it, i don’t doubt, but if i can get rid of it i certainly will. now go away, Kreacher.’ it seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct order; nevertheless, the look he gave Sirius_Black as he shuffled out past him was full of deepest loathing and he muttered all the way out of the room. ‘– comes back from azkaban ordering Kreacher around, oh, my poor mistress, what would she say if she saw the house now, scum living in it, her treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers and he’s back, they say he’s a murderer too –’ ‘keep muttering and i will be a murderer!’ said Sirius_Black irRita_Skeeterbly as he slammed the door shut on the elf. ‘Sirius_Black, he’s not right in the head,’ Hermione_Granger pleaded, ‘i don’t think he realises we can hear him.’ ‘he’s been alone too long,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘taking mad orders from my mother’s portrait and talking to himself, but he was always a foul little –’ ‘if you could just set him free,’ said Hermione_Granger Hope_Howellfully, ‘maybe –’ ‘we can’t set him free, he knows too much about the order,’ said Sirius_Black curtly. ‘and anyway, the shock would kill him. you suggest to him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it.’ Sirius_Black walked across the room to where the tapestry Kreacher had been trying to protect hung the length of the wall. Harry_Potter and the others followed. the tapestry looked immensely old; it was faded and looked as though doxys had gnawed it in places. nevertheless, the golden thread with which it was embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show them a sprawling family tree dating back (as far as Harry_Potter could tell) to the middle ages. large words at the very top of the tapestry read: the noble and most ancient house of black  ‘toujours pur’ ‘you’re not on here!’ said Harry_Potter, after scanning the bottom of the tree. ‘i used to be there,’ said Sirius_Black, pointing at a small, round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. ‘my sweet old mother blasted me off after i ran away from home – Kreacher’s quite fond of muttering the story under his breath.’ ‘you ran away from home?’ ‘when i was about sixteen,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘i’d had enough.’ ‘where did you go?’ asked Harry_Potter, staring at him. ‘your dad’s place,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘your grandparents were really good about it; they sort of adopted me as a second son. yeah, i camped out at your dad’s in the school holidays, and when i was seventeen i got a place of my own. my uncle alphard had left me a decent bit of gold – he’s been wiped off here, too, that’s probably why – anyway, after that i looked after myself. i was always welcome at mr and mrs potter’s for sunday lunch, though.’ ‘but … why did you …?’ ‘leave?’ Sirius_Black smiled bitterly and ran his fingers through his long, unkempt hair. ‘because i hated the whole lot of them: my parents, with their pure-blood mania, convinced that to be a black made you practically royal … my idiot brother, soft enough to believe them … that’s him.’ Sirius_Black jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, at the name ‘Regulus_Black black’. a date of death (some fifteen years previously) followed the date of birth. ‘he was younger than me,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘and a much better son, as i was conStanley_Shunpiketly reminded.’ ‘but he died,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘stupid idiot … he joined the death eaters.’ ‘you’re kidding!’ ‘come on, Harry_Potter, haven’t you seen enough of this house to tell what kind of wizards my family were?’ said Sirius_Black testily. ‘were – were your parents death eaters as well?’ ‘no, no, but believe me, they thought voldemort had the right idea, they were all for the purification of the wizarding race, getting rid of muggle-borns and having pure-bloods in charge. they weren’t alone, either, there were quite a few people, before voldemort showed his true colours, who thought he had the right idea about things … they got cold feet when they saw what he was  prepared to do to get power, though. but i bet my parents thought Regulus_Black was a right little hero for joining up at first.’ ‘was he killed by an auror?’ Harry_Potter asked tentatively. ‘oh, no,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘no, he was murdered by voldemort. or on voldemort’s orders, more likely; i doubt Regulus_Black was ever important enough to be killed by voldemort in person. from what i found out after he died, he got in so far, then paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoned about what he was being asked to do and tried to back out. well, you don’t just hand in your resignation to voldemort. it’s a lifetime of service or death.’ ‘lunch,’ said mrs weasley’s voice. she was holding her wand high in front of her, balancing a huge tray loaded with sandwiches and cake on its tip. she was very red in the face and still looked angry. the others moved over to her, eager for some food, but Harry_Potter remained with Sirius_Black, who had bent closer to the tapestry. ‘i haven’t looked at this for years. there’s Phineas_Nigellus_Black nigellus … my great- great-grandfather, see? … least popular headmaster hogwarts ever had … and araminta meliflua … cousin of my mother’s … tried to force through a ministry William_Weasley to make mugglehunting legal … and dear aunt ellaNymphadora_Tonks … she started the family tradition of beheading house-elves when they got too old to carry tea trays … of course, any time the family produced someone halfway decent they were disowned. i see tonks isn’t on here. maybe that’s why Kreacher won’t take orders from her – he’s supposed to do whatever anyone in the family asks him –’ ‘you and tonks are related?’ Harry_Potter asked, surprised. ‘oh, yeah, her mother AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks was my favourite cousin,’ said Sirius_Black, examining the tapestry carefully. ‘no, AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks’s not on here either, look –’ he pointed to another small round burn mark between two names, Bellatrix_Lestrange and Narcissa_Malfoy. ‘AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks’s sisters are still here because they made lovely, respectable pure-blood marriages, but AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks married a muggle-born,Edward_Tonkstonks, so –’ Sirius_Black mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly. Harry_Potter, however, did not laugh; he was too busy staring at the names to the right of AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks’s burn mark. a double line of gold embroidery linked Narcissa_Malfoy black with Lucius_Malfoy malfoy and a single vertical gold line from their names led to the name Draco_Malfoy. ‘you’re related to the malfoys!’ ‘the pure-blood families are all interrelated,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘if you’re only going to let your sons and daughters marry pure-bloods your choice is very limited; there are hardly any of us left. Molly_Weasley and i are cousins by marriage and Arthur_Weasley’s something like my second cousin once removed. but there’s no point looking for them on here – if ever a family was a bunch of blood traitors it’s the weasleys.’ but Harry_Potter was now looking at the name to the left of AnAndromeda_Tonks_Tonks’s burn: Bellatrix_Lestrange black, which was connected by a double line to Rodolphus_Lestrange Lestrange. ‘Lestrange …’ Harry_Potter said aloud. the name had stirred something in his memory; he knew it from somewhere, but for a moment he couldn’t think where, though it gave him an odd, creeping sensation in the pit of his stomach. ‘they’re in azkaban,’ said Sirius_Black shortly. Harry_Potter looked at him curiously. ‘Bellatrix_Lestrange and her husband Rodolphus_Lestrange came in with Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch junior,’ said Sirius_Black, in the same brusque voice. ‘Rodolphus_Lestrange’s brother rabaStanley_Shunpike was with them, too.’ then Harry_Potter remembered. he had seen Bellatrix_Lestrange Lestrange  inside Albus_Dumbledore’s pensieve, the strange device in which thoughts and memories could be stored: a Tall_goblin dark woman with heavy-lidded eyes, who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her continuing allegiance to lord voldemort, her pride that she had tried to find him after his downfall and her conviction that she would one day be rewarded for her loyalty. ‘you never said she was your –’ ‘does it matter if she’s my cousin?’ snapped Sirius_Black. ‘as far as i’m concerned, they’re not my family. she’s certainly not my family. i haven’t seen her since i was your age, unless you count a glimpse of her coming into azkaban. d’you think i’m proud of having a relative like her?’ ‘sorry,’ said Harry_Potter quickly, ‘i didn’t mean – i was just surprised, that’s all –’ ‘it doesn’t matter, don’t apologise,’ Sirius_Black mumbled. he turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. ‘i don’t like being back here,’ he said, staring across the drawing room. ‘i never thought i’d be stuck in this house again.’ Harry_Potter understood completely. he knew how he would feel, when he was grown up and thought he was free of the place for ever, to return and live at number four, privet drive. ‘it’s ideal for headquarters, of course,’ Sirius_Black said. ‘my father put every security measure known to wizardkind on it when he lived here. it’s unplottable, so muggles could never come and call – as if they’d ever have wanted to – and now Albus_Dumbledore’s added his protection, you’d be hard put to find a safer house anywhere. Albus_Dumbledore is secret keeper for the order, you know – nobody can find headquarters unless he tells them personally where it is – that note moody showed you last night, that was from Albus_Dumbledore …’ Sirius_Black gave a short, bark-like laugh. ‘if my parents could see the use their house was being put to now … well, my mother’s portrait should give you some idea …’ he scowled for a moment, then sighed. ‘i wouldn’t mind if i could just get out occasionally and do something useful. i’ve asked Albus_Dumbledore whether i can escort you to your hearing – as Sirius_Black, obviously – so i can give you a bit of moral support, what d’you think?’ Harry_Potter felt as though his stomach had sunk through the dusty carpet. he had not thought about the hearing once since dinner the previous evening; in the excitement of being back with the people he liked best, and hearing everything that was going on, it had completely flown his mind. at Sirius_Black’s words, however, the crushing sense of dread returned to him. he stared at Hermione_Granger and the weasleys, all tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he would feel if they went back to hogwarts without him. ‘don’t worry,’ Sirius_Black said. Harry_Potter looked up and realised that Sirius_Black had been watching him. ‘i’m sure they’ll clear you, there’s definitely something in the international statute of secrecy about being allowed to use Magic_goblin to save your own life.’ ‘but if they do expel me,’ said Harry_Potter quietly, ‘can i come back here and live with you?’ Sirius_Black smiled sadly. ‘we’ll see.’ ‘i’d feel a lot better about the hearing if i knew i didn’t have to go back to the dursleys’,’ Harry_Potter pressed him. ‘they must be bad if you prefer this place,’ said Sirius_Black gloomily. ‘hurry up, you two, or there won’t be any food left,’ mrs weasley called. Sirius_Black heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry, then he and Harry_Potter went to join the others. Harry_Potter tried his best not to think about the hearing while they emptied the glass-fronted cabinets that afternoon. fortunately for him, it was a job that required a lot of concentration, as many of the objects in there seemed very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius_Black sustained a bad bite from a silver snuffbox; within seconds his bitten hand had developed an unpleasant crusty covering like a tough brown glove. ‘it’s ok,’ he said, examining the hand with interest before tapping it lightly with his wand and restoring its skin to normal, ‘must be wartcap powder in there.’ he threw the box aside into the sack where they were depositing the debris from the cabinets; Harry_Potter saw George_Weasley wrap his own hand carefully in a cloth moments later and sneak the box into his already doxy-filled pocket. they found an unpleasant-looking silver instrument, something like a many-legged pair of tweezers, which scuttled up Harry_Potter’s arm like a spider when he picked it up, and attempted to puncture his skin. Sirius_Black seized it and smashed it with a heavy book entitled nature’s nobility: a wizarding genealogy. there was a musical box that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune when wound, and they all found themselves becoming curiously weak and sleepy, until Ginevra_Weasley had the sense to slam the lid shut; a heavy locket that none of them could open; a number of ancient seals; and, in a dusty box, an order of merlin, first class, that had been awarded to Sirius_Black’s grandfather for ‘services to the ministry’. ‘it means he gave them a load of gold,’ said Sirius_Black contemptuously, throwing the medal into the rubbish sack. several times Kreacher sidled into the room and attempted to smuggle things away under his loincloth, muttering horrible curses every time they caught him at it. when Sirius_Black wrested a large golden ring bearing the black crest from his grip, Kreacher actually burst into furious tears and left the room sobbing under his breath and calling Sirius_Black names Harry_Potter had never heard before. ‘it was my father’s,’ said Sirius_Black, throwing the ring into the sack. ‘Kreacher wasn’t quite as devoted to him as to my mother, but i still caught him snogging a pair of my father’s old trousers last week.’ * mrs weasley kept them all working very hard over the next few days. the drawing room took three days to decontaminate. finally, the only undesirable things left in it were the tapestry of the black family tree, which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the wall, and the rattling writing desk. moody had not dropped by headquarters yet, so they could not be sure what was inside it. they moved from the drawing room to a dining room on the ground floor where they found spiders as large as saucers lurking in the dresser (ron left the room hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not return for an hour and a half). the china, which bore the black crest and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously into a sack by Sirius_Black, and the same fate met a set of old photographs in tarnished silver frames, all of whose occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them smashed. snape might refer to their work as ‘cleaning’, but in Harry_Potter’s opinion they were really waging war on the house, which was putting up a very good fight, aided and abetted by Kreacher. the house-elf kept appearing wherever they were congregated, his muttering becoming more and more offensive as he attempted to remove anything he could from the rubbish sacks. Sirius_Black went as far as to threaten him with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said, ‘master must do as master wishes,’ before turning away and muttering very loudly, ‘but master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the dark lord, yes, with these mudbloods and traitors and scum …’ at which Sirius_Black, ignoring Hermione_Granger’s protests, seized Kreacher by the back of his loincloth and threw him bodily from the room. the doorbell rang several times a day, which was the cue for Sirius_Black’s mother to start shrieking again, and for Harry_Potter and the others to attempt to eavesdrop on the visitor, though they gleaned very little from the brief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were able to sneak before mrs weasley recalled them to their tasks. snape flitted in and out of the house several times more, though to Harry_Potter’s relief they never came face to face; Harry_Potter also caught sight of his transfiguration teacher professor Minerva_McGonagall, looking very odd in a muggle dress and coat, and she also seemed too busy to linger. sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help. tonks joined them for a memorable afternoon in which they found a murderous old ghoul lurking in an upstairs toilet, and lupin, who was staying in the house with Sirius_Black but who left it for long periods to do mysterious work for the order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that had developed the unpleasant habit of shooting heavy bolts at passers-by. MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher redeemed himself slightly in mrs weasley’s eyes by rescuingRonald_Weasleyfrom an ancient set of purple robes that had tried to strangle him when he removed them from their wardrobe. despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still having dreams about corridors and locked doors that made his scar prickle, Harry_Potter was managing to have fun for the first time all summer. as long as he was busy he was happy; when the action abated, however, whenever he dropped his guard, or lay exhausted in bed watching blurred shadows move across the ceiling, the thought of the looming ministry hearing returned to him. fear jabbed at his insides like needles as he wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled. the idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even toRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, who, though he often saw them whispering together and casting anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in not mentioning it. sometimes, he could not prevent his imagination showing him a faceless ministry official who was snapping his wand in two and ordering him back to the dursleys’ … but he would not go. he was determined on that. he would come back here to grimmauld place and live with Sirius_Black. he felt as though a brick had dropped into his stomach when mrs weasley turned to him during dinner on wednesday evening and said quietly, ‘i’ve ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry_Potter, and i want you to wash your hair tonight, too. a good first impression can work wonders.’ ron, Hermione_Granger, Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley all stopped talking and looked over at him. Harry_Potter nodded and tried to keep eating his chop, but his mouth had become so dry he could not chew. ‘how am i getting there?’ he asked mrs weasley, trying to sound unconcerned. ‘Arthur_Weasley’s taking you to work with him,’ said mrs weasley gently. mr weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry_Potter across the table. ‘you can wait in my office until it’s time for the hearing,’ he said. Harry_Potter looked over at Sirius_Black, but before he could ask the question, mrs weasley had answered it. ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Sirius_Black to go with you, and i must say i –’ ‘– think he’s quite right,’ said Sirius_Black through clenched teeth. mrs weasley pursed her lips. ‘when did Albus_Dumbledore tell you that?’ Harry_Potter said, staring at Sirius_Black. ‘he came last night, when you were in bed,’ said mr weasley. Sirius_Black stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry_Potter lowered his own eyes to his plate. the thought that Albus_Dumbledore had been in the house on the eve of his hearing and not asked to see him made him feel, if it were possible, even worse. 