— chapter ten — Luna_Lovegood lovegood Harry_Potter had a troubled night’s sleep. his parents wove in and out of his dreams, never speaking; mrs weasley sobbed over Kreacher’s dead body, watched byRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger who were wearing crowns, and yet again Harry_Potter found himself walking down a corridor ending in a locked door. he awoke abruptly with his scar prickling to findRonald_Weasleyalready dressed and talking to him. ‘… better hurry up, mum’s going ballistic, she says we’re going to miss the train …’ there was a lot of commotion in the house. from what he heard as he dressed at top speed, Harry_Potter gathered that Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had bewitched their trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying them, with the result that they had hurtled straight into Ginevra_Weasley and knocked her down two flights of stairs into the hall; mrs black and mrs weasley were both screaming at the top of their voices. ‘– could have done her a serious injury, you idiots –’ ‘– filthy half-breeds, besmirching the house of my fathers –’ Hermione_Granger came hurrying into the room looking flustered, just as Harry_Potter was putting on his trainers. Hedwig was swaying on her shoulder, and she was carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms. ‘mum and dad just sent Hedwig back.’ the owl fluttered obligingly over and perched on top of her cage. ‘are you ready yet?’ ‘nearly. is Ginevra_Weasley all right?’ Harry_Potter asked, shoving on his glasses. ‘mrs weasley’s patched her up,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘but now Alastor_Moody’s complaining that we can’t leave unless Sturgis_Podmore podmore’s here, otherwise the guard will be one short.’ ‘guard?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we have to go to king’s cross with a guard?’ ‘you have to go to king’s cross with a guard,’ Hermione_Granger corrected him. ‘why?’ said Harry_Potter irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘i thought voldemort was supposed to be lying low, or are you telling me he’s going to jump out from behind a dustbin to try    and do me in?’ ‘i don’t know, it’s just what Alastor_Moody says,’ said Hermione_Granger distractedly, looking at her watch, ‘but if we don’t leave soon we’re definitely going to miss the train …’ ‘will you lot get down here now, please!’ mrs weasley bellowed and Hermione_Granger jumped as though scalded and hurried out of the room. Harry_Potter seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremoniously into her cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione_Granger, dragging his trunk. mrs black’s portrait was howling with rage but nobody was bothering to close the curtains over her; all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again, anyway. ‘Harry_Potter, you’re to come with me and tonks,’ shouted mrs weasley – over the repeated screeches of ‘mudbloods! scum! creatures of dirt!’ – ‘leave your trunk and your owl, Alastor_Moody’s going to deal with the luggage … oh, for heaven’s sake, Sirius_Black, Albus_Dumbledore said no!’ a bear-like black dog had appeared at Harry_Potter’s side as he was clambering over the various trunks cluttering the hall to get to mrs weasley. ‘oh honestly …’ said mrs weasley despairingly. ‘well, on your own head be it!’ she wrenched open the front door and stepped out into the weak september sunlight. Harry_Potter and the dog followed her. the door slammed behind them and mrs black’s screeches were cut off inStanley_Shunpiketly. ‘where’s tonks?’ Harry_Potter said, looking round as they went down the stone steps of number twelve, which vanished the moment they reached the pavement. ‘she’s waiting for us just up here,’ said mrs weasley stiffly, averting her eyes from the lolloping black dog beside Harry_Potter. an old woman greeted them on the corner. she had tightly curled grey hair and wore a purple hat shaped like a pork pie. ‘wotcher, Harry_Potter,’ she said, winking. ‘better hurry up, hadn’t we, Molly_Weasley?’ she added, checking her watch. ‘i know, i know,’ moaned mrs weasley, lengthening her stride, ‘but mad- eye wanted to wait for Sturgis_Podmore … if only Arthur_Weasley could have got us cars from the ministry again … but fudge won’t let him borrow so much as an empty ink bottle these days … how muggles can Stanley_Shunpiked travelling without Magic_goblin …’ but the great black dog gave a joyful bark and gambolled around them, snapping at pigeons and chasing its own tail. Harry_Potter couldn’t help laughing. Sirius_Black had been trapped inside for a very long time. mrs weasley pursed her lips in an almost aunt Petunia_Dursley-ish way. it took them twenty minutes to reach king’s cross on foot and nothing more eventful happened during that time than Sirius_Black scaring a couple of cats for Harry_Potter’s entertainment. once inside the station they lingered casually beside the barrier between platforms nine and ten until the coast was clear, then each of them leaned against it in turn and fell easily through on to platform nine and three-quarters, where the hogwarts express stood belching sooty steam over a platform packed with departing students and their families. Harry_Potter inhaled the familiar smell and felt his spirits soar … he was really going back … ‘i Hope_Howell the others make it in time,’ said mrs weasley anxiously, staring behind her at the wrought-iron arch spanning the platform, through which new arrivals would come. ‘nice dog, Harry_Potter!’ called a Tall_goblin boy with dreadlocks. ‘thanks, lee,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning, as Sirius_Black wagged his tail frantically. ‘oh good,’ said mrs weasley, sounding relieved, ‘here’s Alastor_Moody with the luggage, look …’ a porter’s cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, moody came limping through the archway pushing a trolley loaded with their trunks. ‘all ok,’ he muttered to mrs weasley and tonks, ‘don’t think we were followed …’ seconds later, mr weasley emerged on to the platform withRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. they had almost unloaded moody’s luggage trolley when Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley turned up with lupin. ‘no trouble?’ growled moody. ‘nothing,’ said lupin. ‘i’ll still be reporting Sturgis_Podmore to Albus_Dumbledore,’ said moody, ‘that’s the second time he’s not turned up in a week. getting as unreliable as MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher.’ ‘well, look after yourselves,’ said lupin, shaking hands all round. he reached Harry_Potter last and gave him a clap on the shoulder. ‘you too, Harry_Potter. be careful.’ ‘yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,’ said moody, shaking Harry_Potter’s hand too. ‘and don’t forget, all of you – careful what you put in writing. if in doubt, don’t put it in a letter at all.’ ‘it’s been great meeting all of you,’ said tonks, hugging Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley. ‘we’ll see you soon, i expect.’ a warning whistle sounded; the students still on the platform started hurrying on to the train. ‘quick, quick,’ said mrs weasley distractedly, hugging them at random and catching Harry_Potter twice. ‘write … be good … if you’ve forgotten anything we’ll send it on … on to the train, now, hurry …’ for one brief moment, the great black dog reared on to its hind legs and placed its front paws on Harry_Potter’s shoulders, but mrs weasley shoved Harry_Potter away towards the train door, hissing, ‘for heaven’s sake, act more like a dog, Sirius_Black!’ ‘see you!’ Harry_Potter called out of the open window as the train began to move, while ron, Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley waved beside him. the figures of tonks, lupin, moody and mr and mrs weasley shrank rapidly but the black dog was bounding alongside the window, wagging its tail; blurred people on the platform were laughing to see it chasing the train, then they rounded a bend, and Sirius_Black was gone. ‘he shouldn’t have come with us,’ said Hermione_Granger in a worried voice. ‘oh, lighten up,’ said ron, ‘he hasn’t seen daylight for months, poor bloke.’ ‘well,’ said Fred_Weasley, clapping his hands together, ‘can’t Stanley_Shunpiked around chatting all day, we’ve got business to discuss with lee. see you later,’ and he and George_Weasley disappeared down the corridor to the right. the train was gathering still more speed, so that the houses outside the window flashed past, and they swayed where they stood. ‘shall we go and find a compartment, then?’ Harry_Potter asked.Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger exchanged looks. ‘er,’ said ron. ‘we’re – well –Ronald_Weasleyand i are supposed to go into the prefect carriage,’ Hermione_Granger said awkwardly.Ronald_Weasleywasn’t looking at Harry_Potter; he seemed to have become intensely interested in the fingernails on his left hand. ‘oh,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘right. fine.’ ‘i don’t think we’ll have to stay there all journey,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘our letters said we just get instructions from the head boy and girl and then patrol the corridors from time to time.’ ‘fine,’ said Harry_Potter again. ‘well, i – i might see you later, then.’ ‘yeah, definitely,’ said ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry_Potter. ‘it’s a pain having to go down there, i’d rather – but we have to – i mean, i’m not enjoying it, i’m not Percy_Weasley,’ he finished defiantly. ‘i know you’re not,’ said Harry_Potter and he grinned. but as Hermione_Granger andRonald_Weasleydragged their trunks, Crookshanks and a caged Pigwidgeon off towards the engine end of the train, Harry_Potter felt an odd sense of loss. he had never travelled on the hogwarts express without ron. ‘come on,’ Ginevra_Weasley told him, ‘if we get a move on we’ll be able to save them places.’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter, picking up Hedwig’s cage in one hand and the handle of his trunk in the other. they struggled off down the corridor, peering through the glass-panelled doors into the compartments they passed, which were already full. Harry_Potter could not help noticing that a lot of people stared back at him with great interest and that several of them nudged their neighbours and pointed him out. after he had met this behaviour in five consecutive carriages he remembered that the daily prophet had been telling its readers all summer what a lying show-off he was. he wondered bleakly whether the people now staring and whispering believed the stories. in the very last carriage they met Neville_Longbottom longbottom, Harry_Potter’s fellow fifth- year gryffindor, his round face shining with the effort of pulling his trunk along and maintaining a one-handed grip on his struggling toad, Trevor. ‘hi, Harry_Potter,’ he panted. ‘hi, Ginevra_Weasley … everywhere’s full … i can’t find a seat …’ ‘what are you talking about?’ said Ginevra_Weasley, who had squeezed past Neville_Longbottom to peer into the compartment behind him. ‘there’s room in this one, there’s only Luna_Lovegood in here –’ Neville_Longbottom mumbled something about not wanting to disturb anyone. ‘don’t be silly,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, laughing, ‘she’s all right.’ she slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside. Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom followed. ‘hi, Luna_Lovegood,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, ‘is it ok if we take these seats?’ the girl beside the window looked up. she had straggly, waist-length, dirty blonde hair, very pale eyebrows and protuberant eyes that gave her a permanently surprised look. Harry_Potter knew at once why Neville_Longbottom had chosen to pass this compartment by. the girl gave off an aura of distinct dottiness. perhaps it was the fact that she had stuck her wand behind her left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to wear a necklace of butterbeer corks, or that she was reading a magazine upside-down. her eyes ranged over Neville_Longbottom and came to rest on Harry_Potter. she nodded. ‘thanks,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, smiling at her. Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom stowed the three trunks and Hedwig’s cage in the luggage rack and sat down. Luna_Lovegood watched them over her upside-down magazine, which was called the quibbler. she did not seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. she stared and stared at Harry_Potter, who had taken the seat opposite her and now wished he hadn’t. ‘had a good summer, Luna_Lovegood?’ Ginevra_Weasley asked. ‘yes,’ said Luna_Lovegood dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry_Potter. ‘yes, it was quite enjoyable, you know. you’re Harry_Potter potter,’ she added. ‘i know i am,’ said Harry_Potter. Neville_Longbottom chuckled. Luna_Lovegood turned her pale eyes on him instead. ‘and i don’t know who you are.’ ‘i’m nobody,’ said Neville_Longbottom hurriedly. ‘no you’re not,’ said Ginevra_Weasley sharply. ‘Neville_Longbottom longbottom – Luna_Lovegood lovegood. Luna_Lovegood’s in my year, but in ravenclaw.’ ‘wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure,’ said Luna_Lovegood in a singsong voice. she raised her upside-down magazine high enough to hide her face and fell silent. Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom looked at each other with their eyebrows raised. Ginevra_Weasley suppressed a giggle. the train rattled onwards, speeding them out into open country. it was an odd, unsettled sort of day; one moment the carriage was full of sunlight and the next they were passing beneath ominously grey clouds. ‘guess what i got for my birthday?’ said Neville_Longbottom. ‘another remembrall?’ said Harry_Potter, remembering the marble-like device Neville_Longbottom’s grandmother had sent him in an effort to improve his abysmal memory. ‘no,’ said Neville_Longbottom. ‘i could do with one, though, i lost the old one ages ago … no, look at this …’ he dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on Trevor into his schoolbag and after a little bit of rummaging pulled out what appeared to be a small grey cactus in a pot, except that it was covered with what looked like boils rather than spines. ‘mimbulus mimbletonia,’ he said proudly. Harry_Potter stared at the thing. it was pulsating slightly, giving it the rather sinister look of some diseased internal organ. ‘it’s really, really rare,’ said Neville_Longbottom, beaming. ‘i don’t know if there’s one in the greenhouse at hogwarts, even. i can’t wait to show it to professor sprout. my great uncle algie got it for me in assyria. i’m going to see if i can breed from it.’ Harry_Potter knew that Neville_Longbottom’s favourite subject was herbology but for the life of him he could not see what he would want with this stunted little plant. ‘does it – er – do anything?’ he asked. ‘loads of stuff!’ said Neville_Longbottom proudly. ‘it’s got an amazing defensive mechanism. here, hold Trevor for me …’ he dumped the toad into Harry_Potter’s lap and took a quill from his schoolbag. Luna_Lovegood lovegood’s popping eyes appeared over the top of her upside-down magazine again, to watch what Neville_Longbottom was doing. Neville_Longbottom held the mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue between his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant a sharp prod with the tip of his quill. liquid squirted from every boil on the plant; thick, stinking, dark green jets of it. they hit the ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna_Lovegood lovegood’s magazine; Ginevra_Weasley, who had flung her arms up in front of her face just in time, merely looked as though she was wearing a slimy green hat, but Harry_Potter, whose hands had been busy preventing Trevor’s escape, received a faceful. it smelled like rancid manure. Neville_Longbottom, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes. ‘s – sorry,’ he gasped. ‘i haven’t tried that before … didn’t realise it would be quite so … don’t worry, though, stinksap’s not poisonous,’ he added nervously, as Harry_Potter spat a mouthful on to the floor. at that precise moment the door of their compartment slid open. ‘oh … hello, Harry_Potter,’ said a nervous voice. ‘um … bad time?’ Harry_Potter wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevor-free hand. a very pretty girl with long, shiny black hair was Stanley_Shunpikeding in the doorway smiling at him: Cho_Chang, the seeker on the ravenclaw quidditch team. ‘oh … hi,’ said Harry_Potter blankly. ‘um …’ said cho. ‘well … just thought i’d say hello … bye then.’ rather pink in the face, she closed the door and departed. Harry_Potter slumped back in his seat and groaned. he would have likedCho_Changto discover him sitting with a group of very cool people laughing their heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not have chosen to be sitting with Neville_Longbottom and Luna_Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in stinksap. ‘never mind,’ said Ginevra_Weasley bracingly. ‘look, we can easily get rid of all this.’ she pulled out her wand. ‘scourgify!’ the stinksap vanished. ‘sorry,’ said Neville_Longbottom again, in a small voice.Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger did not turn up for nearly an hour, by which time the food trolley had already gone by. Harry_Potter, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom had finished their pumpkin pasties and were busy swapping chocolate frog cards when the in, accompanied by compartment door slid open and Crookshanks and a shrilly hooting Pigwidgeon in his cage. they walked  ‘i’m starving,’ said ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to Hedwig, grabbing a chocolate frog from Harry_Potter and throwing himself into the seat next to him. he ripped open the wrapper, bit off the frog’s head and leaned back with his eyes closed as though he had had a very exhausting morning. ‘well, there are two fifth-year prefects from each house,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking thoroughly disgruntled as she took her seat. ‘boy and girl from each.’ ‘and guess who’s a slytherin prefect?’ said ron, still with his eyes closed. ‘malfoy,’ replied Harry_Potter at once, certain his worst fear would be confirmed. ‘course,’ saidRonald_Weasleybitterly, stuffing the rest of the frog into his mouth and taking another. ‘and that complete cow Pansy_Parkinson parkinson,’ said Hermione_Granger viciously. ‘how she got to be a prefect when she’s thicker than a concussed troll …’ ‘who are hufflepuff’s?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘Ernest_Prangmacmillan and Hannah_Abbott abbott,’ saidRonald_Weasleythickly. ‘and Anthony_Goldstein goldstein and Padma_Patil patil for ravenclaw,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘you went to the yule ball with Padma_Patil patil,’ said a vague voice. everyone turned to look at Luna_Lovegood lovegood, who was gazing unblinkingly atRonald_Weasleyover the top of the quibbler. he swallowed his mouthful of frog. ‘yeah, i know i did,’ he said, looking mildly surprised. ‘she didn’t enjoy it very much,’ Luna_Lovegood informed him. ‘she doesn’t think you treated her very well, because you wouldn’t dance with her. i don’t think i’d have minded,’ she added thoughtfully, ‘i don’t like dancing very much.’ she retreated behind the quibbler again.Ronald_Weasleystared at the cover with his mouth hanging open for a few seconds, then looked around at Ginevra_Weasley for some kind of explanation, but Ginevra_Weasley had stuffed her knuckles in her mouth to stop herself giggling.Ronald_Weasleyshook his head, bemused, then checked his watch. ‘we’re supposed to patrol the corridors every so often,’ he told Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom, ‘and we can give out punishments if people are misbehaving. i can’t wait to get crabbe and Goyle for something …’ ‘you’re not supposed to abuse your position, ron!’ said Hermione_Granger sharply. ‘yeah, right, because malfoy won’t abuse it at all,’ saidRonald_Weasleysarcastically. ‘so you’re going to descend to his level?’ ‘no, i’m just going to make sure i get his mates before he gets mine.’ ‘for heaven’s sake,Ronald_Weasley–’ ‘i’ll make Goyle do lines, it’ll kill him, he hates writing,’ saidRonald_Weasleyhappily. he lowered his voice to Goyle’s low grunt and, screwing up his face in a look of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. ‘i … must … not … look … like … a … baboon’s … backside.’ everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than Luna_Lovegood lovegood. she let out a scream of mirth that caused Hedwig to wake up and flap her wings indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the luggage rack, hissing. Luna_Lovegood laughed so hard her magazine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs and on to the floor. ‘that was funny!’ her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath, staring at ron. utterly nonplussed, he looked around at the others, who were now laughing at the expression on ron’s face and at the ludicrously prolonged laughter of Luna_Lovegood lovegood, who was rocking backwards and forwards, clutching her sides. ‘are you taking the mickey?’ said ron, frowning at her. ‘baboon’s … backside!’ she choked, holding her ribs. everyone else was watching Luna_Lovegood laughing, but Harry_Potter, glancing at the magazine on the floor, noticed something that made him dive for it. upside- down it had been hard to tell what the picture on the front was, but Harry_Potter now realised it was a fairly bad cartoon of Cornelius_Fudge fudge; Harry_Potter only recognised him because of the lime-green bowler hat. one of fudge’s hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the other hand was throttling a goblin. the cartoon was captioned: how far will fudge go to gain Gringotts_Head_Goblin? beneath this were listed the titles of other articles inside the magazine. corruption in the quidditch league: how the tornados are taking control secrets of the ancient runes revealed Sirius_Black black: villain or victim? ‘can i have a look at this?’ Harry_Potter asked Luna_Lovegood eagerly. she nodded, still gazing at ron, breathless with laughter.   Harry_Potter opened the magazine and scanned the index. until this moment he had completely forgotten the magazine Kingsley_Shacklebolt had handed mr weasley to give to Sirius_Black, but it must have been this edition of the quibbler. he found the page, and turned excitedly to the article. this, too, was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon; in fact, Harry_Potter would not have known it was supposed to be Sirius_Black if it hadn’t been captioned. Sirius_Black was Stanley_Shunpikeding on a pile of human bones with his wand out. the headline on the article said: Sirius_Black – black as he’s painted? notorious mass murderer or innocent singing sensation? Harry_Potter had to read this first sentence several times before he was convinced that he had not misunderstood it. since when had Sirius_Black been a singing sensation? for fourteen years Sirius_Black black has been believed guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent muggles and one wizard. black’s audacious escape from azkaban two years ago has led to the widest manhunt ever conducted by the ministry of Magic_goblin. none of us has ever questioned that he deserves to be recaptured and handed back to the dementors. but does he? startling new evidence has recently come to light that Sirius_Black black may not have committed the crimes for which he was sent to azkaban. in fact, says Doris_Crockford purkiss, of 18 acanthia way, little norton, black may not even have been present at the killings. ‘what people don’t realise is that Sirius_Black black is a false name,’ says mrs purkiss. ‘the man people believe to be Sirius_Black black is actually Sirius_Black, lead singer of popular singing group the hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being struck on the ear by a turnip at a concert in little norton church hall nearly fifteen years ago. i recognised him the moment i saw his picture in the paper. now, stubby couldn’t possibly have committed those crimes, because on the day in question he happened to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner with me. i have written to the minister for Magic_goblin and am expecting him to give stubby, alias Sirius_Black, a full pardon any day now.’ Harry_Potter finished reading and stared at the page in disbelief. perhaps it was a     joke, he thought, perhaps the magazine often printed spoof items. he flicked back a few pages and found the piece on fudge. Cornelius_Fudge fudge, the minister for Magic_goblin, denied that he had any plans to take over the running of the wizarding bank, Gringotts_Head_Goblin, when he was elected minister for Magic_goblin five years ago. fudge has always insisted that he wants nothing more than to ‘co-operate peacefully’ with the guardians of our gold. but does he? sources close to the minister have recently disclosed that fudge’s dearest ambition is to seize control of the goblin gold supplies and that he will not hesitate to use force if need be. ‘it wouldn’t be the first time, either,’ said a ministry insider. ‘Cornelius_Fudge “Cornelius_Fudge” fudge, that’s what his friends call him. if you could hear him when he thinks no one’s listening, oh, he’s always talking about the goblins he’s had done in; he’s had them drowned, he’s had them dropped off buildings, he’s had them poisoned, he’s had them Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maned in pies …’ Harry_Potter did not read any further. fudge might have many faults but Harry_Potter found it extremely hard to imagine him ordering goblins to be Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maned in pies. he flicked through the rest of the magazine. pausing every few pages, he read: an accusation that the tutshill tornados were winning the quidditch league by a combination of blackmail, illegal broom-tampering and torture; an interview with a wizard who claimed to have flown to the moon on a cleansweep six and brought back a bag of moon frogs to prove it; and an article on ancient runes which at least explained why Luna_Lovegood had been reading the quibbler upside-down. according to the magazine, if you turned the runes on their heads they revealed a spell to make your enemy’s ears turn into kumquats. in fact, compared to the rest of the articles in the quibbler, the suggestion that Sirius_Black might really be the lead singer of the hobgoblins was quite sensible. ‘anything good in there?’ askedRonald_Weasleyas Harry_Potter closed the magazine. ‘of course not,’ said Hermione_Granger scathingly, before Harry_Potter could answer. ‘the quibbler’s rubbish, everyone knows that.’ ‘excuse me,’ said Luna_Lovegood; her voice had suddenly lost its dreamy quality. ‘my father’s the editor.’ ‘i – oh,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking embarrassed. ‘well … it’s got some interesting … i mean, it’s quite …’   ‘i’ll have it back, thank you,’ said Luna_Lovegood coldly, and leaning forwards she snatched it out of Harry_Potter’s hands. riffling through it to page fifty-seven, she turned it resolutely upside-down again and disappeared behind it, just as the compartment door opened for the third time. Harry_Potter looked around; he had expected this, but that did not make the sight of Draco_Malfoy malfoy smirking at him from between his cronies crabbe and Goyle any more enjoyable. ‘what?’ he said aggressively, before malfoy could open his mouth. ‘manners, potter, or i’ll have to give you a detention,’ drawled malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed chin were just like his father’s. ‘you see, i, unlike you, have been made a prefect, which means that i, unlike you, have the power to hand out punishments.’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but you, unlike me, are a git, so get out and leave us alone.’ ron, Hermione_Granger, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom laughed. malfoy’s lip curled. ‘tell me, how does it feel being second-best to weasley, potter?’ he asked. ‘shut up, malfoy,’ said Hermione_Granger sharply. ‘i seem to have touched a nerve,’ said malfoy, smirking. ‘well, just watch yourself, potter, because i’ll be dogging your footsteps in case you step out of line.’ ‘get out!’ said Hermione_Granger, Stanley_Shunpikeding up. sniggering, malfoy gave Harry_Potter a last malicious look and departed, with crabbe and Goyle lumbering along in his wake. Hermione_Granger slammed the compartment door behind them and turned to look at Harry_Potter, who knew at once that she, like him, had registered what malfoy had said and been just as unnerved by it. ‘chuck us another frog,’ said ron, who had clearly noticed nothing. Harry_Potter could not talk freely in front of Neville_Longbottom and Luna_Lovegood. he exchanged another nervous look with Hermione_Granger, then stared out of the window. he had thought Sirius_Black coming with him to the station was a bit of a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, if not downright dangerous … Hermione_Granger had been right … Sirius_Black should not have come. what if mr malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco_Malfoy? what if he had deduced that the weasleys, lupin, tonks and moody knew where Sirius_Black was hiding? or had malfoy’s use of the word ‘dogging’ been a coincidence? the weather remained undecided as they travelled further and further north. rain spattered the windows in a half-hearted way, then the sun put in a feeble appearance before clouds drifted over it once more. when darkness fell and lamps came on inside the carriages, Luna_Lovegood rolled up the quibbler, put it carefully away in her bag and took to staring at everyone in the compartment instead. Harry_Potter was sitting with his forehead pressed against the train window, trying to get a first diStanley_Shunpiket glimpse of hogwarts, but it was a moonless night and the rain-streaked window was grimy. ‘we’d better change,’ said Hermione_Granger at last. she andRonald_Weasleypinned their prefect badges carefully to their chests. Harry_Potter sawRonald_Weasleychecking his reflection in the black window. at last, the train began to slow down and they heard the usual racket up and down it as everybody scrambled to get their luggage and pets assembled, ready to get off. asRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger were supposed to supervise all this, they disappeared from the carriage again, leaving Harry_Potter and the others to look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon. ‘i’ll carry that owl, if you like,’ said Luna_Lovegood to Harry_Potter, reaching out for Pigwidgeon as Neville_Longbottom stowed Trevor carefully in an inside pocket. ‘oh – er – thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, handing her the cage and hoisting Hedwig’s more securely into his arms. they shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first sting of the night air on their faces as they joined the crowd in the corridor. slowly, they moved towards the doors. Harry_Potter could smell the pine trees that lined the path down to the lake. he stepped down on to the platform and looked around, listening for the familiar call of ‘firs’-years over ’ere … firs’-years …’ but it did not come. instead, a quite different voice, a brisk female one, was calling out, ‘first-years line up over here, please! all first-years to me!’ a lantern came swinging towards Harry_Potter and by its light he saw the prominent chin and severe haircut of professor grubbly-plank, the witch who had taken over Rubeus_Hagrid’s care of Magic_goblinal creatures lessons for a while the previous year. ‘where’s Rubeus_Hagrid?’ he said out loud. ‘i don’t know,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, ‘but we’d better get out of the way, we’re blocking the door.’ ‘oh, yeah …’ Harry_Potter and Ginevra_Weasley became separated as they moved off along the platform and out through the station. jostled by the crowd, Harry_Potter squinted through the darkness for a glimpse of Rubeus_Hagrid; he had to be here, Harry_Potter had been relying on it – seeing Rubeus_Hagrid again was one of the things he’d been looking forward to most. but there was no sign of him. he can’t have left, Harry_Potter told himself as he shuffled slowly through a narrow doorway on to the road outside with the rest of the crowd. he’s just got a cold or something … he looked around forRonald_Weasleyor Hermione_Granger, wanting to know what they thought about the reappearance of professor grubbly-plank, but neither of them was anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be shunted forwards on to the dark rain-washed road outside hogsmeade station. here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches that always took the students above first year up to the castle. Harry_Potter glanced quickly at them, turned away to keep a lookout forRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, then did a double-take. the coaches were no longer horseless. there were creatures Stanley_Shunpikeding between the carriage shafts. if he had had to give them a name, he supposed he would have called them horses, though there was something reptilian about them, too. they were completely fleshless, their black coats clinging to their skeletons, of which every bone was visible. their heads were dragonish, and their pupil-less eyes white and staring. wings sprouted from each wither – vast, black leathery wings that looked as though they ought to belong to giant bats. Stanley_Shunpikeding still and quiet in the gloom, the creatures looked eerie and sinister. Harry_Potter could not underStanley_Shunpiked why the coaches were being pulled by these horrible horses when they were quite capable of moving along by themselves. ‘where’s pig?’ said ron’s voice, right behind Harry_Potter. ‘that Luna_Lovegood girl was carrying him,’ said Harry_Potter, turning quickly, eager to consultRonald_Weasleyabout Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘where d’you reckon –’ ‘– Rubeus_Hagrid is? i dunno,’ said ron, sounding worried. ‘he’d better be ok …’ a short diStanley_Shunpikece away, Draco_Malfoy malfoy, followed by a small gang of cronies including crabbe, Goyle and Pansy_Parkinson parkinson, was pushing some timid- looking second-years out of the way so that he and his friends could get a coach to themselves. seconds later, Hermione_Granger emerged panting from the crowd. ‘malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first-year back there. i swear i’m going to report him, he’s only had his badge three minutes and he’s using it to bully people worse than ever … where’s Crookshanks?’ ‘Ginevra_Weasley’s got him,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘there she is …’ just emerged from Ginevra_Weasley had  the crowd, clutching a squirming Crookshanks. ‘thanks,’ said Hermione_Granger, relieving Ginevra_Weasley of the cat. ‘come on, let’s get a carriage together before they all fill up …’ ‘i haven’t gotPigwidgeonyet!’Ronald_Weasleysaid, but Hermione_Granger was already heading off towards the nearest unoccupied coach. Harry_Potter remained behind with ron. ‘what are those things, d’you reckon?’ he asked ron, nodding at the horrible horses as the other students surged past them. ‘what things?’ ‘those horse –’ Luna_Lovegood appeared holding Pigwidgeon’s cage in her arms; the tiny owl was twittering excitedly as usual. ‘here you are,’ she said. ‘he’s a sweet little owl, isn’t he?’ ‘er … yeah … he’s all right,’ saidRonald_Weasleygruffly. ‘well, come on then, let’s get in … what were you saying, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i was saying, what are those horse things?’ Harry_Potter said, as he,Ronald_Weasleyand Luna_Lovegood made for the carriage in which Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley were already sitting. ‘what horse things?’ ‘the horse things pulling the carriages!’ said Harry_Potter impatiently. they were, after all, about three feet from the nearest one; it was watching them with empty white eyes. ron, however, gave Harry_Potter a perplexed look. ‘what are you talking about?’ ‘i’m talking about – look!’ Harry_Potter grabbed ron’s arm and wheeled him about so that he was face to face with the winged horse.Ronald_Weasleystared straight at it for a second, then looked back at Harry_Potter. ‘what am i supposed to be looking at?’ ‘at the – there, between the shafts! harnessed to the coach! it’s right there in front –’ but asRonald_Weasleycontinued to look bemused, a strange thought occurred to Harry_Potter. ‘can’t … can’t you see them?’ ‘see what?’ ‘can’t you see what’s pulling the carriages?’Ronald_Weasleylooked seriously alarmed now. ‘are you feeling all right, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i … yeah …’ Harry_Potter felt utterly bewildered. the horse was there in front of him, gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing from the station windows behind them, vapour rising from its nostrils in the chilly night air. yet, unlessRonald_Weasleywas faking – and it was a very feeble joke if he was –Ronald_Weasleycould not see it at all. ‘shall we get in, then?’ saidRonald_Weasleyuncertainly, looking at Harry_Potter as though worried about him. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah, go on …’ ‘it’s all right,’ said a dreamy voice from beside Harry_Potter asRonald_Weasleyvanished into the coach’s dark interior. ‘you’re not going mad or anything. i can see them, too.’ ‘can you?’ said Harry_Potter desperately, turning to Luna_Lovegood. he could see the bat- winged horses reflected in her wide silvery eyes. ‘oh, yes,’ said Luna_Lovegood, ‘i’ve been able to see them ever since my first day here. they’ve always pulled the carriages. don’t worry. you’re just as sane as i am.’ smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of the carriage after ron. not altogether reassured, Harry_Potter followed her. 