— chapter four — number twelve, grimmauld place ‘what’s the order of the –?’ Harry_Potter began. ‘not here, boy!’ snarled moody. ‘wait till we’re inside!’ he pulled the piece of parchment out of Harry_Potter’s hand and set fire to it with his wand-tip. as the message curled into flames and floated to the ground, Harry_Potter looked around at the houses again. they were standing outside number eleven; he looked to the left and saw number ten; to the right, however, was number thirteen. ‘but where’s –?’ ‘think about what you’ve just memorised,’ said lupin quietly. Harry_Potter thought, and no sooner had he reached the part about number twelve, grimmauld place, than a battered door emerged out of nowhere between numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by dirty walls and grimy windows. it was as though an extra house had inflated, pushing those on either side out of its way. Harry_Potter gaped at it. the stereo in number eleven thudded on. apparently the muggles inside hadn’t felt anything. ‘come on, hurry,’ growled moody, prodding Harry_Potter in the back. Harry_Potter walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the newly materialised door. its black paint was shabby and scratched. the silver doorknocker was in the form of a twisted serpent. there was no keyhole or letterbox. lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Harry_Potter heard many loud, metallic clicks and what sounded like the clatter of a chain. the door creaked open. ‘get in quick, Harry_Potter,’ lupin whispered, ‘but don’t go far inside and don’t touch anything.’ Harry_Potter stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of the hall. he could smell damp, dust and a sweetish, rotting smell; the place had the feeling of a derelict building. he looked over his shoulder and saw the others filing in behind him, lupin and Nymphadora_Tonks carrying his trunk and Hedwig’s cage. moody was standing on the top step releasing the balls of light the put-outer    had stolen from the streetlamps; they flew back to their bulbs and the square glowed momentarily with orange light before moody limped inside and closed the front door, so that the darkness in the hall became complete. ‘here –’ he rapped Harry_Potter hard over the head with his wand; Harry_Potter felt as though something hot was trickling down his back this time and knew that the disillusionment charm must have lifted. ‘now stay still, everyone, while i give us a bit of light in here,’ moody whispered. the others’ hushed voices were giving Harry_Potter an odd feeling of foreboding; it was as though they had just entered the house of a dying person. he heard a soft hissing noise and then old-fashioned gas lamps sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a flickering insubstantial light over the peeling wallpaper and threadbare carpet of a long, Gloomy_nuns hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier glimmered overhead and age-blackened Walburga_Blacks hung crooked on the walls. Harry_Potter heard something scuttling behind the skirting board. both the chandelier and the candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like serpents. there were hurried footsteps and ron’s mother, Molly_Weasley, emerged from a door at the far end of the hall. she was beaming in welcome as she hurried towards them, though Harry_Potter noticed that she was rather thinner and paler than she had been last time he had seen her. ‘oh, Harry_Potter, it’s lovely to see you!’ she whispered, pulling him into a rib- cracking hug before holding him at arm’s length and examining him critically. ‘you’re looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you’ll have to wait a bit for dinner, i’m afraid.’ she turned to the gang of wizards behind him and whispered urgently, ‘he’s just arrived, the meeting’s started.’ the wizards behind Harry_Potter all made noises of interest and excitement and began filing past him towards the door through which Molly_Weasley had just come. Harry_Potter made to follow lupin, but Molly_Weasley held him back. ‘no, Harry_Potter, the meeting’s only for members of the order. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger are upstairs, you can wait with them until the meeting’s over, then we’ll have dinner. and keep your voice down in the hall,’ she added in an urgent whisper. ‘why?’ ‘i don’t want anything to wake up.’ ‘what d’you –?’ ‘i’ll explain later, i’ve got to hurry, i’m supposed to be at the meeting – i’ll just show you where you’re sleeping.’ pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoe past a pair of long, moth-eaten curtains, behind which Harry_Potter supposed there must be another door, and after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked as though it had been made from a severed troll’s leg they started up the dark staircase, passing a row of shrunken heads mounted on plaques on the wall. a closer look showed Harry_Potter that the heads belonged to house-elves. all of them had the same rather snout-like nose. Harry_Potter’s bewilderment deepened with every step he took. what on earth were they doing in a house that looked as though it belonged to the darkest of wizards? ‘Molly_Weasley, why –?’ ‘ron and Hermione_Granger will explain everything, dear, i’ve really got to dash,’ Molly_Weasley whispered distractedly. ‘there –’ they had reached the second landing, ‘– you’re the door on the right. i’ll call you when it’s over.’ and she hurried off downstairs again. Harry_Potter crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom doorknob, which was shaped like a serpent’s head, and opened the door. he caught a brief glimpse of a Gloomy_nuns high-ceilinged, twin-bedded room; then there was a loud twittering noise, followed by an even louder shriek, and his vision was completely obscured by a large quantity of very bushy hair. Hermione_Granger had thrown herself on to him in a hug that nearly knocked him flat, while ron’s tiny owl, Pigwidgeon, zoomed excitedly round and round their heads. ‘Harry_Potter! Ronald_Weasley he’s here, Harry_Potter’s here! we didn’t hear you arrive! oh, how are you? are you all right? have you been furious with us? i bet you have, i know our letters were useless – but we couldn’t tell you anything, Albus_Dumbledore made us swear we wouldn’t, oh, we’ve got so much to tell you, and you’ve got things to tell us – the dementors! when we heard – and that ministry hearing – it’s just outrageous, i’ve looked it all up, they can’t expel you, they just can’t, there’s provision in the decree for the reasonable restriction of underage sorcery for the use of magic in life-threatening situations –’ ‘let him breathe, Hermione_Granger,’ said Ronald_Weasley grinning as he closed the door behind Harry_Potter. he seemed to have grown several more inches during their month apart, making him taller and more gangly looking than ever, though the long nose, bright red hair and freckles were the same. still beaming, Hermione_Granger let go of Harry_Potter, but before she could say another word there was a soft whooshing sound and something white soared from the top of a dark wardrobe and landed gently on Harry_Potter’s shoulder. ‘Hedwig!’ the snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear affectionately as Harry_Potter stroked her feathers. ‘she’s been in a right state,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘pecked us half to death when she brought your last letters, look at this –’ he showed Harry_Potter the index finger of his right hand, which sported a half- healed but clearly deep cut. ‘oh, yeah,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘sorry about that, but i wanted answers, you know –’ ‘we wanted to give them to you, mate,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Hermione_Granger was going spare, she kept saying you’d do something stupid if you were stuck all on your own without news, but Albus_Dumbledore made us –’ ‘– swear not to tell me,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah, Hermione_Granger’s already said.’ the warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight of his two best friends was extinguished as something icy flooded the pit of his stomach. all of a sudden – after yearning to see them for a solid month – he felt he would rather Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger left him alone. there was a strained silence in which Harry_Potter stroked Hedwig automatically, not looking at either of the others. ‘he seemed to think it was best,’ said Hermione_Granger rather breathlessly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore, i mean.’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter. he noticed that her hands, too, bore the marks of Hedwig’s beak and found that he was not at all sorry. ‘i think he thought you were safest with the muggles –’ Ronald_Weasley began. ‘yeah?’ said Harry_Potter, raising his eyebrows. ‘have either of you been attacked by dementors this summer?’ ‘well, no – but that’s why he’s had people from the order of the phoenix tailing you all the time –’ Harry_Potter felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step going downstairs. so everyone had known he was being followed, except him. ‘didn’t work that well, though, did it?’ said Harry_Potter, doing his utmost to keep his voice even. ‘had to look after myself after all, didn’t i?’ ‘he was so angry,’ said Hermione_Granger, in an almost awestruck voice. ‘Albus_Dumbledore. we saw him. when he found out MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher had left before his shift had ended. he was scary.’ ‘well, i’m glad he left,’ Harry_Potter said coldly. ‘if he hadn’t, i wouldn’t have done magic and Albus_Dumbledore would probably have left me at privet drive all summer.’ ‘aren’t you … aren’t you worried about the ministry of magic hearing?’ said Hermione_Granger quietly. ‘no,’ Harry_Potter lied defiantly. he walked away from them, looking around, with Hedwig nestled contentedly on his shoulder, but this room was not likely to raise his spirits. it was dank and dark. a blank stretch of canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that relieved the bareness of the peeling walls, and as Harry_Potter passed it he thought he heard someone, who was lurking out of sight, snigger. ‘so why’s Albus_Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the dark?’ Harry_Potter asked, still trying hard to keep his voice casual. ‘did you – er – bother to ask him at all?’ he glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a look that told him he was behaving just as they had feared he would. it did nothing to improve his temper. ‘we told Albus_Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘we did, mate. but he’s really busy now, we’ve only seen him twice since we came here and he didn’t have much time, he just made us swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, he said the owls might be intercepted.’ ‘he could still’ve kept me informed if he’d wanted to,’ Harry_Potter said shortly. ‘you’re not telling me he doesn’t know ways to send messages without owls.’ Hermione_Granger glanced at Ronald_Weasley and then said, ‘i thought that, too. but he didn’t want you to know anything.’ ‘maybe he thinks i can’t be trusted,’ said Harry_Potter, watching their expressions. ‘don’t be thick,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking highly disconcerted. ‘or that i can’t take care of myself.’ ‘of course he doesn’t think that!’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously. ‘so how come i have to stay at Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’ while you two get to join in everything that’s going on here?’ said Harry_Potter, the words tumbling over one another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every word. ‘how come you two are allowed to know everything that’s going on?’ ‘we’re not!’ Ronald_Weasley interrupted. ‘mum won’t let us near the meetings, she says we’re too young –’ but before he knew it, Harry_Potter was shouting. ‘so you haven’t been in the meetings, big deal! you’ve still been here, haven’t you? you’ve still been together! me, i’ve been stuck at Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’ for a month! and i’ve handled more than you two’ve ever managed and Albus_Dumbledore knows it – who saved the philosopher’s stone? who got rid of riddle? who saved both your skins from the dementors?’ every bitter and resentful thought Harry_Potter had had in the past month was pouring out of him: his frustration at the lack of news, the hurt that they had all been together without him, his fury at being followed and not told about it – all the feelings he was half-ashamed of finally burst their boundaries. Hedwig took fright at the noise and soared off to the top of the wardrobe again; Pigwidgeon twittered in alarm and zoomed even faster around their heads. ‘who had to get past dragons and sphinxes and every other foul thing last year? who saw him come back? who had to escape from him? me!’ Ronald_Weasley was standing there with his mouth half-open, clearly stunned and at a loss for anything to say, whilst Hermione_Granger looked on the verge of tears. ‘but why should i know what’s going on? why should anyone bother to tell me what’s been happening?’ ‘Harry_Potter, we wanted to tell you, we really did –’ Hermione_Granger began. ‘can’t’ve wanted to that much, can you, or you’d have sent me an owl, but Albus_Dumbledore made you swear –’ ‘well, he did –’ ‘four weeks i’ve been stuck in privet drive, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoning papers out of bins to try and find out what’s been going on –’ ‘we wanted to –’ ‘i suppose you’ve been having a real laugh, haven’t you, all holed up here together –’ ‘no, honest –’ ‘Harry_Potter, we’re really sorry!’ said Hermione_Granger desperately, her eyes now sparkling with tears. ‘you’re absolutely right, Harry_Potter – i’d be furious if it was me!’ Harry_Potter glared at her, still breathing deeply, then turned away from them again, pacing up and down. Hedwig hooted glumly from the top of the wardrobe. there was a long pause, broken only by the mournful creak of the floorboards below Harry_Potter’s feet. ‘what is this place, anyway?’ he shot at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘headquarters of the order of the phoenix,’ said Ronald_Weasley at once. ‘is anyone going to bother telling me what the order of the phoenix –?’ ‘it’s a secret society,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s in charge, he founded it. it’s the people who fought against Tom_Riddle last time.’ ‘who’s in it?’ said Harry_Potter, coming to a halt with his hands in his pockets. ‘quite a few people –’ ‘we’ve met about twenty of them,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘but we think there are more.’ Harry_Potter glared at them. ‘well?’ he demanded, looking from one to the other. ‘er,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘well what?’ ‘voldemort!’ said Harry_Potter furiously, and both Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger winced. ‘what’s happening? what’s he up to? where is he? what are we doing to stop him?’ ‘we’ve told you, the order don’t let us in on their meetings,’ said Hermione_Granger nervously. ‘so we don’t know the details – but we’ve got a general idea,’ she added hastily, seeing the look on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley have invented extendable ears, see,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘they’re really useful.’ ‘extendable –?’ ‘ears, yeah. only we’ve had to stop using them lately because mum found out and went berserk. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had to hide them all to stop mum binning them. but we got a good bit of use out of them before mum realised what was going on. we know some of the order are following known death eaters, keeping tabs on them, you know –’ ‘some of them are working on recruiting more people to the order –’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘and some of them are standing guard over something,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘they’re always talking about guard duty.’ ‘couldn’t have been me, could it?’ said Harry_Potter sarcastically. ‘oh, yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley with a look of dawning comprehension. Harry_Potter snorted. he walked around the room again, looking anywhere but at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘so, what have you two been doing, if you’re not allowed in meetings?’ he demanded. ‘you said you’d been busy.’ ‘we have,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘we’ve been decontaminating this house, it’s been empty for ages and stuff’s been breeding in here. we’ve managed to clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms and i think we’re doing the drawing room tomo— aargh!’ with two loud cracks, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, ron’s elder twin brothers, had materialised out of thin air in the middle of the room. Pigwidgeon twittered more wildly than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig on top of the wardrobe. ‘stop doing that!’ Hermione_Granger said weakly to the twins, who were as vividly red-haired as Ronald_Weasley though stockier and slightly shorter. ‘hello, Harry_Potter,’ said George_Weasley, beaming at him. ‘we thought we heard your dulcet tones.’ ‘you don’t want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry_Potter, let it all out,’ said Fred_Weasley, also beaming. ‘there might be a couple of people fifty Miles_Bletchley away who didn’t hear you.’ ‘you two passed your apparition tests, then?’ asked Harry_Potter grumpily. ‘with distinction,’ said Fred_Weasley, who was holding what looked like a piece of very long, flesh-coloured string. ‘it would have taken you about thirty seconds longer to walk down the stairs,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘time is galleons, little brother,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘anyway, Harry_Potter, you’re interfering with reception. extendable ears,’ he added in response to Harry_Potter’s raised eyebrows, and held up the string which Harry_Potter now saw was trailing out on to the landing. ‘we’re trying to hear what’s going on downstairs.’ ‘you want to be careful,’ said Ronald_Weasley staring at the ear, ‘if mum sees one of them again …’ ‘it’s worth the risk, that’s a major meeting they’re having,’ said Fred_Weasley. the door opened and a long mane of red hair appeared. ‘oh, hello, Harry_Potter!’ said ron’s younger sister, Ginevra_Weasley, brightly. ‘i thought i heard your voice.’ turning to Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, she said, ‘it’s no-go with the extendable ears, she’s gone and put an imperturbable charm on the kitchen door.’ ‘how d’you know?’ said George_Weasley, looking crestfallen. ‘tonks told me how to find out,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘you just chuck stuff at the door and if it can’t make contact the door’s been imperturbed. i’ve been flicking Mundungus_Fletcherbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they just soar away from it, so there’s no way the extendable ears will be able to get under the gap.’ Fred_Weasley heaved a deep sigh. ‘shame. i really fancied finding out what old snape’s been up to.’ ‘snape!’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘is he here?’ ‘yeah,’ said George_Weasley, carefully closing the door and sitting down on one of the beds; Fred_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley followed. ‘giving a report. top secret.’ ‘git,’ said Fred_Weasley idly. ‘he’s on our side now,’ said Hermione_Granger reprovingly. Ronald_Weasley snorted. ‘doesn’t stop him being a git. the way he looks at us when he sees us.’ ‘bill doesn’t like him, either,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, as though that settled the matter. Harry_Potter was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his thirst for information was now overcoming his urge to keep shouting. he sank on to the bed opposite the others. ‘is William_Weasley here?’ he asked. ‘i thought he was working in egypt?’ ‘he applied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the order,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘he says he misses the tombs, but,’ he smirked, ‘there are compensations.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ ‘remember old Fleur_Delacour?’ said George_Weasley. ‘she’s got a job at Gringotts_Head_Goblin to eemprove ’er eeenglish –’ ‘and bill’s been giving her a lot of private lessons,’ sniggered Fred_Weasley. ‘Charles_Weasley’s in the order, too,’ said George_Weasley, ‘but he’s still in romania. Albus_Dumbledore wants as many foreign wizards brought in as possible, so Charles_Weasley’s trying to make contacts on his days off.’ ‘couldn’t Percy_Weasley do that?’ Harry_Potter asked. the last he had heard, the third weasley brother was working in the department of international magical co- operation at the ministry of magic. at Harry_Potter’s words, all the weasleys and Hermione_Granger exchanged darkly significant looks. ‘whatever you do, don’t mention Percy_Weasley in front of mum and dad,’ Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter in a tense voice. ‘why not?’ ‘because every time Percy_Weasley’s name’s mentioned, dad breaks whatever he’s holding and mum starts crying,’ Fred_Weasley said. ‘it’s been awful,’ said Ginevra_Weasley sadly. ‘i think we’re well shot of him,’ said George_Weasley, with an uncharacteristically ugly look on his face. ‘what’s happened?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘Percy_Weasley and dad had a row,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘i’ve never seen dad row with anyone like that. it’s normally mum who shouts.’ ‘it was the first week back after term ended,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘we were about to come and join the order. Percy_Weasley came home and told us he’d been promoted.’ ‘you’re kidding?’ said Harry_Potter. though he knew perfectly well that Percy_Weasley was highly ambitious, Harry_Potter’s impression was that Percy_Weasley had not made a great success of his first job at the ministry of magic. Percy_Weasley had committed the fairly large oversight of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled by Tom_Riddle (not that the ministry had believed it – they all thought mr crouch had gone mad). ‘yeah, we were all surprised,’ said George_Weasley, ‘because Percy_Weasley got into a load of trouble about crouch, there was an inquiry and everything. they said Percy_Weasley ought to have realised crouch was off his rocker and informed a superior. but you know Percy_Weasley, crouch left him in charge, he wasn’t going to complain.’ ‘so how come they promoted him?’ ‘that’s exactly what we wondered,’ said Ronald_Weasley who seemed very keen to keep normal conversation going now that Harry_Potter had stopped yelling. ‘he came home really pleased with himself – even more pleased than usual, if you can imagine that – and told dad he’d been offered a position in fudge’s own office. a really good one for someone only a year out of hogwarts: junior assistant to the minister. he expected dad to be all impressed, i think.’ ‘only dad wasn’t,’ said Fred_Weasley grimly. ‘why not?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, apparently fudge has been storming round the ministry checking that nobody’s having any contact with Albus_Dumbledore,’ said George_Weasley. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s name is mud with the ministry these days, see,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘they all think he’s just making trouble saying Tom_Riddle’s back.’ ‘dad says fudge has made it clear that anyone who’s in league with Albus_Dumbledore can clear out their desks,’ said George_Weasley. ‘trouble is, fudge suspects dad, he knows he’s friendly with Albus_Dumbledore, and he’s always thought dad’s a bit of a weirdo because of his muggle obsession.’ ‘but what’s that got to do with Percy_Weasley?’ asked Harry_Potter, confused. ‘i’m coming to that. dad reckons fudge only wants Percy_Weasley in his office because he wants to use him to spy on the family – and Albus_Dumbledore.’ Harry_Potter let out a low whistle. ‘bet Percy_Weasley loved that.’ Ronald_Weasley laughed in a hollow sort of way. ‘he went completely berserk. he said – well, he said loads of terrible stuff. he said he’s been having to struggle against dad’s lousy reputation ever since he joined the ministry and that dad’s got no ambition and that’s why we’ve always been – you know – not had a lot of money, i mean –’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter in disbelief, as Ginevra_Weasley made a noise like an angry cat. ‘i know,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a low voice. ‘and it got worse. he said dad was an idiot to run around with Albus_Dumbledore, that Albus_Dumbledore was heading for big trouble and dad was going to go down with him, and that he – Percy_Weasley – knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the ministry. and if mum and dad were going to become traitors to the ministry he was going to make sure everyone knew he didn’t belong to our family any more. and he packed his bags the same night and left. he’s living here in london now.’ Harry_Potter swore under his breath. he had always liked Percy_Weasley least of ron’s brothers, but he had never imagined he would say such things to Arthur_Weasley. ‘mum’s been in a right state,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you know – crying and stuff. she came up to london to try and talk to Percy_Weasley but he slammed the door in her face. i dunno what he does if he meets dad at work – ignores him, i s’pose.’ ‘but Percy_Weasley must know voldemort’s back,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘he’s not stupid, he must know your mum and dad wouldn’t risk everything without proof.’ ‘yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,’ said Ronald_Weasley shooting Harry_Potter a furtive look. ‘Percy_Weasley said the only evidence was your word and … i dunno … he didn’t think it was good enough.’ ‘Percy_Weasley takes the daily prophet seriously,’ said Hermione_Granger tartly, and the others all nodded. ‘what are you talking about?’ Harry_Potter asked, looking around at them all. they were all regarding him warily. ‘haven’t – haven’t you been getting the daily prophet?’ Hermione_Granger asked nervously. ‘yeah, i have!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘have you – er – been reading it thoroughly?’ Hermione_Granger asked, still more anxiously. ‘not cover to cover,’ said Harry_Potter defensively. ‘if they were going to report anything about voldemort it would be headline news, wouldn’t it?’ the others flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione_Granger hurried on, ‘well, you’d need to read it cover to cover to pick it up, but they – um – they mention you a couple of times a week.’ ‘but i’d have seen –’ ‘not if you’ve only been reading the front page, you wouldn’t,’ said Hermione_Granger, shaking her head. ‘i’m not talking about big articles. they just slip you in, like you’re a standing joke.’ ‘what d’you –?’ ‘it’s quite nasty, actually,’ said Hermione_Granger in a voice of forced calm. ‘they’re just building on Rita_Skeeter’s stuff.’ ‘but she’s not writing for them any more, is she?’ ‘oh, no, she’s kept her promise – not that she’s got any choice,’ Hermione_Granger added with satisfaction. ‘but she laid the foundation for what they’re trying to do now.’ ‘which is what?’ said Harry_Potter impatiently. ‘ok, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the place and saying your scar was hurting and all that?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, who was not likely to forget Rita_Skeeter’s stories about him in a hurry. ‘well, they’re writing about you as though you’re this deluded, attention- seeking person who thinks he’s a great tragic hero or something,’ said Hermione_Granger, very fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry_Potter to hear these facts quickly. ‘they keep slipping in snide comments about you. if some far-fetched story appears, they say something like, “a tale worthy of Harry_Potter”, and if anyone has a funny accident or anything it’s, “let’s Hope_Howell he hasn’t got a scar on his forehead or we’ll be asked to worship him next” –’ ‘i don’t want anyone to worship –’ Harry_Potter began hotly. ‘i know you don’t,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly, looking frightened. ‘i know, Harry_Potter. but you see what they’re doing? they want to turn you into someone nobody will believe. fudge is behind it, i’ll bet anything. they want wizards on the street to think you’re just some stupid boy who’s a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall stories because he loves being famous and wants to keep it going.’ ‘i didn’t ask – i didn’t want – voldemort killed my parents!’ Harry_Potter spluttered. ‘i got famous because he murdered my family but couldn’t kill me! who wants to be famous for that? don’t they think i’d rather it’d never –’ ‘we know, Harry_Potter,’ said Ginevra_Weasley earnestly. ‘and of course, they didn’t report a word about the dementors attacking you,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘someone’s told them to keep that quiet. that should’ve been a really big story, out-of-control dementors. they haven’t even reported that you broke the international statute of secrecy. we thought they would, it would tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid show-off. we think they’re biding their time until you’re expelled, then they’re really going to go to town – i mean, if you’re expelled, obviously,’ she went on hastily. ‘you really shouldn’t be, not if they abide by their own laws, there’s no case against you.’ they were back on the hearing and Harry_Potter did not want to think about that. he cast around for another change of subject, but was saved the necessity of finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the stairs. ‘uh oh.’ Fred_Weasley gave the extendable ear a hearty tug; there was another loud crack and he and George_Weasley vanished. seconds later, Molly_Weasley appeared in the bedroom doorway. ‘the meeting’s over, you can come down and have dinner now. everyone’s dying to see you, Harry_Potter. and who’s left all those Mundungus_Fletcherbombs outside the kitchen door?’ ‘Crookshanks,’ said Ginevra_Weasley unblushingly. ‘he loves playing with them.’ ‘oh,’ said Molly_Weasley, ‘i thought it might have been Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like that. now don’t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. Ginevra_Weasley, your hands are filthy, what have you been doing? go and wash them before dinner, please.’ Ginevra_Weasley grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the room, leaving Harry_Potter alone with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. both of them were watching him apprehensively, as though they feared he would start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. the sight of them looking so nervous made him feel slightly ashamed. ‘look …’ he muttered, but Ronald_Weasley shook his head, and Hermione_Granger said quietly, ‘we knew you’d be angry, Harry_Potter, we really don’t blame you, but you’ve got to understand, we did try to persuade Albus_Dumbledore –’ ‘yeah, i know,’ said Harry_Potter shortly. he cast around for a topic that didn’t involve his headmaster, because the very thought of Albus_Dumbledore made Harry_Potter’s insides burn with anger again. ‘who’s Kreacher?’ he asked. ‘the house-elf who lives here,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘nutter. never met one like him.’ Hermione_Granger frowned at Ronald_Weasley ‘he’s not a nutter, Ronald_Weasley’ ‘his life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,’ said Ronald_Weasley irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘is that normal, Hermione_Granger?’ ‘well – well, if he is a bit strange, it’s not his fault.’ Ronald_Weasley rolled his eyes at Harry_Potter. ‘Hermione_Granger still hasn’t given up on s.p.e.w.’ ‘it’s not s.p.e.w.!’ said Hermione_Granger heatedly. ‘it’s the society for the promotion of elfish welfare. and it’s not just me, Albus_Dumbledore says we should be kind to Kreacher too.’ ‘yeah, yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘c’mon, i’m starving.’ he led the way out of the door and on to the landing, but before they could descend the stairs – ‘hold it!’ Ronald_Weasley breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger walking any further. ‘they’re still in the hall, we might be able to hear something.’ the three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. the Gloomy_nuns hallway below was packed with witches and wizards, including all of Harry_Potter’s guard. they were whispering excitedly together. in the very centre of the group Harry_Potter saw the dark, greasy-haired head and prominent nose of his least favourite teacher at hogwarts, professor snape. Harry_Potter leant further over the banisters. he was very interested in what snape was doing for the order of the phoenix … a thin piece of flesh-coloured string descended in front of Harry_Potter’s eyes. looking up, he saw Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley on the landing above, cautiously lowering the extendable ear towards the dark knot of people below. a moment later, however, they all began to move towards the front door and out of sight. ‘dammit,’ Harry_Potter heard Fred_Weasley whisper, as he hoisted the extendable ear back up again. they heard the front door open, then close. ‘snape never eats here,’ Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter quietly. ‘thank god. c’mon.’ ‘and don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry_Potter,’ Hermione_Granger whispered. as they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall, they saw lupin, Molly_Weasley and Nymphadora_Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts behind those who had just left. ‘we’re eating down in the kitchen,’ Molly_Weasley whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. ‘Harry_Potter, dear, if you’ll just tiptoe across the hall it’s through this door here –’ crash. ‘tonks!’ cried Molly_Weasley in exasperation, turning to look behind her. ‘i’m sorry!’ wailed Nymphadora_Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. ‘it’s that stupid umbrella stand, that’s the second time i’ve tripped over –’ but the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, earsplitting, blood- curdling screech. the moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry_Potter had passed earlier had flown apart, but there was no door behind them. for a split second, Harry_Potter thought he was looking through a window, a window behind which an old woman in a black cap was screaming and screaming as though she were being tortured – then he realised it was simply a life-size Walburga_Black, but the most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever seen in his life. the old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed; and all along the hall behind them, the other Walburga_Blacks awoke and began to yell, too, so that Harry_Potter actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears. lupin and Molly_Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the curtains shut over the old woman, but they would not close and she screeched louder than ever, brandishing clawed hands as though trying to tear at their faces. ‘filth! scum! by-products of dirt and vileness! half-breeds, mutants, freaks, begone from this place! how dare you befoul the house of my fathers –’ Nymphadora_Tonks apologised over and over again, dragging the huge, heavy troll’s leg back off the floor; Molly_Weasley abandoned the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall, stunning all the other Walburga_Blacks with her wand; and a man with long black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry_Potter. ‘shut up, you horrible old hag, shut up!’ he roared, seizing the curtain Molly_Weasley had abandoned. the old woman’s face blanched. ‘yoooou!’ she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man. ‘blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!’ ‘i said – shut – up!’ roared the man, and with a stupendous effort he and lupin managed to force the curtains closed again. the old woman’s screeches died and an echoing silence fell. panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes, Harry_Potter’s godfather Sirius_Black turned to face him. ‘hello, Harry_Potter,’ he said grimly, ‘i see you’ve met my mother.’ 