— chapter eleven — the sorting hat’s new song Harry_Potter did not want to tell the others that he and Luna_Lovegood were having the same hallucination, if that was what it was, so he said nothing more about the horses as he sat down inside the carriage and slammed the door behind him. nevertheless, he could not help watching the silhouettes of the horses moving beyond the window. ‘did everyone see that Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank woman?’ asked Ginevra_Weasley. ‘what’s she doing back here? Rubeus_Hagrid can’t have left, can he?’ ‘i’ll be quite glad if he has,’ said Luna_Lovegood, ‘he isn’t a very good teacher, is he?’ ‘yes, he is!’ said Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley angrily. Harry_Potter glared at Hermione_Granger. she cleared her throat and quickly said, ‘erm … yes … he’s very good.’ ‘well, we in ravenclaw think he’s a bit of a joke,’ said Luna_Lovegood, unfazed. ‘you’ve got a rubbish sense of humour then,’ Ronald_Weasley snapped, as the wheels below them creaked into motion. Luna_Lovegood did not seem perturbed by ron’s rudeness; on the contrary, she simply watched him for a while as though he were a mildly interesting television programme. rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy up the road. when they passed between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars on either side of the gates to the school grounds, Harry_Potter leaned forwards to try and see whether there were any lights on in Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin by the forbidden forest, but the grounds were in complete darkness. hogwarts castle, however, loomed ever closer: a towering mass of turrets, jet black against the dark sky, here and there a window blazing fiery bright above them. the carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps leading up to the oak front doors and Harry_Potter got out of the carriage first. he turned again to look for lit windows down by the forest, but there was definitely no sign of life within Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. unwillingly, because he had half-Hope_Howelld they would have vanished, he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal creatures    standing quietly in the chill night air, their blank white eyes gleaming. Harry_Potter had once before had the experience of seeing something that Ronald_Weasley could not, but that had been a reflection in a mirror, something much more insubstantial than a hundred very solid-looking beasts strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. if Luna_Lovegood was to be believed, the beasts had always been there but invisible. why, then, could Harry_Potter suddenly see them, and why could Ronald_Weasley not? ‘are you coming or what?’ said Ronald_Weasley beside him. ‘oh … yeah,’ said Harry_Potter quickly and they joined the crowd hurrying up the stone steps into the castle. the entrance hall was ablaze with torches and echoing with footsteps as the students crossed the flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right, leading to the great hall and the start-of-term feast. the four long house tables in the great hall were filling up under the starless black ceiling, which was just like the sky they could glimpse through the high windows. candles floated in midair all along the tables, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were dotted about the hall and the faces of the students talking eagerly, exchanging summer news, shouting greetings at friends from other houses, eyeing one another’s new haircuts and robes. again, Harry_Potter noticed people putting their heads together to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth and tried to act as though he neither noticed nor cared. Luna_Lovegood drifted away from them at the ravenclaw table. the moment they reached gryffindor’s, Ginevra_Weasley was hailed by some fellow fourth-years and left to sit with them; Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and Neville_Longbottom found seats together about halfway down the table between Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, the gryffindor house ghost, and Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown, the last two of whom gave Harry_Potter airy, overly-friendly greetings that made him quite sure they had stopped talking about him a split second before. he had more important things to worry about, however: he was looking over the students’ heads to the staff table that ran along the top wall of the hall. ‘he’s not there.’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger scanned the staff table too, though there was no real need; Rubeus_Hagrid’s size made him instantly obvious in any line-up. ‘he can’t have left,’ said Ronald_Weasley sounding slightly anxious. ‘of course he hasn’t,’ said Harry_Potter firmly. ‘you don’t think he’s … hurt, or anything, do you?’ said Hermione_Granger uneasily. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter at once. ‘but where is he, then?’ there was a pause, then Harry_Potter said very quietly, so that Neville_Longbottom, Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown could not hear, ‘maybe he’s not back yet. you know – from his mission – the thing he was doing over the summer for Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘yeah … yeah, that’ll be it,’ said Ronald_Weasley sounding reassured, but Hermione_Granger bit her lip, looking up and down the staff table as though hoping for some conclusive explanation of Rubeus_Hagrid’s absence. ‘who’s that?’ she said sharply, pointing towards the middle of the staff table. Harry_Potter’s eyes followed hers. they lit first upon professor Albus_Dumbledore, sitting in his high-backed golden chair at the centre of the long staff table, wearing deep-purple robes scattered with silvery stars and a matching hat. Albus_Dumbledore’s head was inclined towards the woman sitting next to him, who was talking into his ear. she looked, Harry_Potter thought, like somebody’s maiden aunt: squat, with short, curly, mouse-brown hair in which she had placed a horrible pink Alice_Longbottom band that matched the Fluffy pink cardigan she wore over her robes. then she turned her face slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw, with a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a pair of prominent, pouchy eyes. ‘it’s that umbridge woman!’ ‘who?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘she was at my hearing, she works for fudge!’ ‘nice cardigan,’ said Ronald_Weasley smirking. ‘she works for fudge!’ Hermione_Granger repeated, frowning. ‘what on earth’s she doing here, then?’ ‘dunno …’ Hermione_Granger scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed. ‘no,’ she muttered, ‘no, surely not …’ Harry_Potter did not understand what she was talking about but did not ask; his attention had been caught by professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank who had just appeared behind the staff table; she worked her way along to the very end and took the seat that ought to have been Rubeus_Hagrid’s. that meant the first-years must have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and sure enough, a few seconds later, the doors from the entrance hall opened. a long line of scared-looking first- years entered, led by professor Minerva_McGonagall, who was carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s hat, heavily patched and darned with a wide rip near the frayed brim. the buzz of talk in the great hall faded away. the first-years lined up in front of the staff table facing the rest of the students, and professor Minerva_McGonagall placed the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back. the first-years’ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. a small boy right in the middle of the row looked as though he was trembling. Harry_Potter recalled, fleetingly, how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, waiting for the unknown test that would determine to which house he belonged. the whole school waited with bated breath. then the rip near the hat’s brim opened wide like a mouth and the sorting hat burst into song: in times of old when i was new and hogwarts barely started the founders of our noble school thought never to be parted: united by a common goal, they had the selfsame yearning, to make the world’s best magic school and pass along their learning. ‘together we will build and teach!’ the four good friends decided and never did they dream that they might some day be divided, for were there such friends anywhere as slytherin and gryffindor? unless it was the second pair of hufflepuff and ravenclaw? so how could it have gone so wrong? how could such friendships fail? why, i was there and so can tell the whole sad, sorry tale. said slytherin, ‘we’ll teach just those whose ancestry is purest.’ said ravenclaw, ‘we’ll teach those whose intelligence is surest.’ said gryffindor, ‘we’ll teach all those  with brave deeds to their name,’ said hufflepuff, ‘i’ll teach the lot, and treat them just the same.’ these differences caused little strife when first they came to light, for each of the four founders had a house in which they might take only those they wanted, so, for instance, slytherin took only pure-blood wizards of great cunning, just like him, and only those of sharpest mind were taught by ravenclaw while the bravest and the boldest went to daring gryffindor. good hufflepuff, she took the rest, and taught them all she knew, thus the houses and their founders retained friendships firm and true. so hogwarts worked in harmony for several happy years, but then discord crept among us feeding on our faults and fears. the houses that, like pillars four, had once held up our school, now turned upon each other and, divided, sought to rule. and for a while it seemed the school must meet an early end, what with duelling and with fighting and the clash of friend on friend and at last there came a morning when old slytherin departed and though the fighting then died out he left us quite downhearted. and never since the founders four were whittled down to three have the houses been united as they once were meant to be. and now the sorting hat is here and you all know the score: i sort you into houses because that is what i’m for, but this year i’ll go further, listen closely to my song: though condemned i am to split you still i worry that it’s wrong, though i must fulfil my duty and must quarter every year still i wonder whether sorting may not bring the end i fear. oh, know the perils, read the signs, the warning history shows, for our hogwarts is in danger from external, deadly foes and we must unite inside her or we’ll crumble from within i have told you, i have warned you … let the sorting now begin. the hat became motionless once more; applause broke out, though it was punctured, for the first time in Harry_Potter’s memory, with muttering and whispers. all across the great hall students were exchanging remarks with their neighbours, and Harry_Potter, clapping along with everyone else, knew exactly what they were talking about. ‘branched out a bit this year, hasn’t it?’ said Ronald_Weasley his eyebrows raised. ‘too right it has,’ said Harry_Potter. the sorting hat usually confined itself to describing the different qualities looked for by each of the four hogwarts houses and its own role in sorting  them. Harry_Potter could not remember it ever trying to give the school advice before. ‘i wonder if it’s ever given warnings before?’ said Hermione_Granger, sounding slightly anxious. ‘yes, indeed,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington knowledgeably, leaning across Neville_Longbottom towards her (Neville_Longbottom winced; it was very uncomfortable to have a ghost lean through you). ‘the hat feels itself honour-bound to give the school due warning whenever it feels –’ but professor Minerva_McGonagall, who was waiting to read out the list of first- years’ names, was giving the whispering students the sort of look that scorches. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington placed a see-through finger to his lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering came to an abrupt end. with a last frowning look that swept the four house tables, professor Minerva_McGonagall lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and called out the first name. ‘abercrombie, Euan_Abercrombie.’ the terrified-looking boy Harry_Potter had noticed earlier stumbled forwards and put the hat on his head; it was only prevented from falling right down to his shoulders by his very prominent ears. the hat considered for a moment, then the rip near the brim opened again and shouted: ‘gryffindor!’ Harry_Potter clapped loudly with the rest of gryffindor house as Euan_Abercrombie staggered to their table and sat down, looking as though he would like very much to sink through the floor and never be looked at again. slowly, the long line of first-years thinned. in the pauses between the names and the sorting hat’s decisions, Harry_Potter could hear ron’s stomach rumbling loudly. finally, ‘zeller, Rose_Zeller’ was sorted into hufflepuff, and professor Minerva_McGonagall picked up the hat and stool and marched them away as professor Albus_Dumbledore Rose_Zeller to his feet. whatever his recent bitter feelings had been towards his headmaster, Harry_Potter was somehow soothed to see Albus_Dumbledore standing before them all. between the absence of Rubeus_Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, he had felt that his return to hogwarts, so long anticipated, was full of unexpected surprises, like jarring notes in a familiar song. but this, at least, was how it was supposed to be: their headmaster rising to greet them all before the start- of-term feast. ‘to our newcomers,’ said Albus_Dumbledore in a ringing voice, his arms stretched wide and a beaming smile on his lips, ‘welcome! to our old hands – welcome back! there is a time for speech-making, but this is not it. tuck in!’ there was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of applause as Albus_Dumbledore sat down neatly and threw his long beard over his shoulder so as to keep it out of the way of his plate – for food had appeared out of nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning under joints and pies and dishes of vegetables, bread and sauces and flagons of pumpkin juice. ‘excellent,’ said Ronald_Weasley with a kind of groan of longing, and he seized the nearest plate of chops and began piling them on to his plate, watched wistfully by Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘what were you saying before the sorting?’ Hermione_Granger asked the ghost. ‘about the hat giving warnings?’ ‘oh, yes,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away from Ronald_Weasley who was now eating roast potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm. ‘yes, i have heard the hat give several warnings before, always at times when it detects periods of great danger for the school. and always, of course, its advice is the same: stand together, be strong from within.’ ‘ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?’ said Ronald_Weasley his mouth was so full Harry_Potter thought it was quite an achievement for him to make any noise at all. ‘i beg your pardon?’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington politely, while Hermione_Granger looked revolted. Ronald_Weasley gave an enormous swallow and said, ‘how can it know if the school’s in danger if it’s a hat?’ ‘i have no idea,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘of course, it lives in Albus_Dumbledore’s office, so i daresay it picks things up there.’ ‘and it wants all the houses to be friends?’ said Harry_Potter, looking over at the slytherin table, where Draco_Malfoy was holding court. ‘fat chance.’ ‘well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington reprovingly. ‘peaceful co-operation, that’s the key. we ghosts, though we belong to separate houses, maintain links of friendship. in spite of the competitiveness between gryffindor and slytherin, i would never dream of seeking an argument with the Bloody_Baron.’ ‘only because you’re terrified of him,’ said Ronald_Weasley Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington looked highly affronted. ‘terrified? i Hope_Howell i, sir Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, have never been guilty of cowardice in my life! the noble blood that runs in my veins –’ ‘what blood?’ asked Ronald_Weasley ‘surely you haven’t still got –?’ ‘it’s a figure of speech!’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, now so annoyed his head was trembling ominously on his partially severed neck. ‘i assume i am still allowed to enjoy the use of whichever words i like, even if the pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! but i am quite used to students poking fun at my death, i assure you!’ ‘Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, he wasn’t really laughing at you!’ said Hermione_Granger, throwing a furious look at Ronald_Weasley unfortunately, ron’s mouth was packed to exploding point again and all he could manage was ‘node iddum eentup sechew,’ which Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington did not seem to think constituted an adequate apology. rising into the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept away from them to the other end of the table, coming to rest between the creevey brothers, Colin_Creevey and Dennis. ‘well done, Ronald_Weasley’ snapped Hermione_Granger. ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow his food. ‘i’m not allowed to ask a simple question?’ ‘oh, forget it,’ said Hermione_Granger irRita_Skeeterbly, and the pair of them spent the rest of the meal in huffy silence. Harry_Potter was too used to their bickering to bother trying to reconcile them; he felt it was a better use of his time to eat his way steadily through his steak and kidney pie, then a large plateful of his favourite treacle tart. when all the students had finished eating and the noise level in the hall was starting to creep upwards again, Albus_Dumbledore got to his feet once more. talking ceased immediately as all turned to face the headmaster. Harry_Potter was feeling pleasantly drowsy now. his four-poster bed was waiting somewhere above, wonderfully warm and soft … ‘well, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, i beg a few moments of your attention for the usual start-of-term notices,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘first-years ought to know that the forest in the grounds is out- of-bounds to students – and a few of our older students ought to know by now, too.’ (Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged smirks.) ‘mr filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he tells me is the four- hundred-and-sixty-second time, to remind you all that magic is not permitted in corridors between classes, nor are a number of other things, all of which can be checked on the extensive list now fastened to mr filch’s office door. ‘we have had two changes in staffing this year. we are very pleased to welcome back professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank, who will be taking care of magical creatures lessons; we are also delighted to introduce professor umbridge, our new defence against the dark arts teacher.’ there was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic applause, during which Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged slightly paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoned looks; Albus_Dumbledore had not said for how long Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank would be teaching. Albus_Dumbledore continued, ‘tryouts for the house quidditch teams will take place on the –’ he broke off, looking enquiringly at professor umbridge. as she was not much taller standing than sitting, there was a moment when nobody understood why Albus_Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then professor umbridge cleared her throat, ‘hem, hem,’ and it became clear that she had got to her feet and was intending to make a speech. Albus_Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, then he sat down smartly and looked alertly at professor umbridge as though he desired nothing better than to listen to her talk. other members of staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. professor sprout’s eyebrows had disappeared into her flyaway hair and professor Minerva_McGonagall’s mouth was as thin as Harry_Potter had ever seen it. no new teacher had ever interrupted Albus_Dumbledore before. many of the students were smirking; this woman obviously did not know how things were done at hogwarts. ‘thank you, headmaster,’ professor umbridge simpered, ‘for those kind words of welcome.’ her voice was high-pitched, breathy and little-girlish and, again, Harry_Potter felt a powerful rush of dislike that he could not explain to himself; all he knew was that he loathed everything about her, from her stupid voice to her Fluffy pink cardigan. she gave another little throat-clearing cough (‘hem, hem’) and continued. ‘well, it is lovely to be back at hogwarts, i must say!’ she smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. ‘and to see such happy little faces looking up at me!’ Harry_Potter glanced around. none of the faces he could see looked happy. on the contrary, they all looked rather taken-aback at being addressed as though they were five years old. ‘i am very much looking forward to getting to know you all and i’m sure we’ll be very good friends!’ students exchanged looks at this; some of them were barely concealing grins. ‘i’ll be her friend as long as i don’t have to borrow that cardigan,’ Parvati_Patil whispered to Lavender_Brown, and both of them lapsed into silent giggles. professor umbridge cleared her throat again (‘hem, hem’), but when she continued, some of the breathiness had vanished from her voice. she sounded much more businesslike and now her words had a dull learned-by-heart sound to them. ‘the ministry of magic has always considered the education of young witches and wizards to be of vital importance. the rare gifts with which you were born may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by careful instruction. the ancient skills unique to the wizarding community must be passed down the generations lest we lose them for ever. the treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our ancestors must be guarded, replenished and polished by those who have been called to the noble profession of teaching.’ professor umbridge paused here and made a little bow to her fellow staff members, none of whom bowed back to her. professor Minerva_McGonagall’s dark eyebrows had contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and Harry_Potter distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance with professor sprout as umbridge gave another little ‘hem, hem’ and went on with her speech. ‘every headmaster and headmistress of hogwarts has brought something new to the weighty task of governing this historic school, and that is as it should be, for without progress there will be stagnation and decay. there again, progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged, for our tried and tested traditions often require no tinkering. a balance, then, between old and new, between permanence and change, between tradition and innovation …’ Harry_Potter found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his brain was slipping in and out of tune. the quiet that always filled the hall when Albus_Dumbledore was speaking was breaking up as students put their heads together, whispering and giggling. over on the ravenclaw table Cho_Chang was chatting animatedly with her friends. a few seats along from cho, Luna_Lovegood had got out the quibbler again. meanwhile, at the hufflepuff table Ernest_Prangmacmillan was one of the few still staring at professor umbridge, but he was glassy-eyed and Harry_Potter was sure he was only pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the new prefect’s badge gleaming on his chest. professor umbridge did not seem to notice the restlessness of her audience. Harry_Potter had the impression that a full-scale riot could have broken out under her nose and she would have ploughed on with her speech. the teachers, however, were still listening very attentively, and Hermione_Granger seemed to be drinking in every word umbridge spoke, though, judging by her expression, they were not at all to her taste. ‘… because some changes will be for the better, while others will come, in the fullness of time, to be recognised as errors of judgement. meanwhile, some old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. let us move forward, then, into a new era of openness, effectiveness and accountability, intent on preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited.’ she sat down. Albus_Dumbledore clapped. the staff followed his lead, though Harry_Potter noticed that several of them brought their hands together only once or twice before stopping. a few students joined in, but most had been taken unawares by the end of the speech, not having listened to more than a few words of it, and before they could start applauding properly, Albus_Dumbledore had stood up again. ‘thank you very much, professor umbridge, that was most illuminating,’ he said, bowing to her. ‘now, as i was saying, quidditch tryouts will be held …’ ‘yes, it certainly was illuminating,’ said Hermione_Granger in a low voice. ‘you’re not telling me you enjoyed it?’ Ronald_Weasley said quietly, turning a glazed face towards Hermione_Granger. ‘that was about the dullest speech i’ve ever heard, and i grew up with Percy_Weasley.’ ‘i said illuminating, not enjoyable,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it explained a lot.’ ‘did it?’ said Harry_Potter in surprise. ‘sounded like a load of waffle to me.’ ‘there was some important stuff hidden in the waffle,’ said Hermione_Granger grimly. ‘was there?’ said Ronald_Weasley blankly. ‘how about: “progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged”? how about: “pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited”?’ ‘well, what does that mean?’ said Ronald_Weasley impatiently. ‘i’ll tell you what it means,’ said Hermione_Granger ominously. ‘it means the ministry’s interfering at hogwarts.’ there was a great clattering and banging all around them; Albus_Dumbledore had obviously just dismissed the school, because everyone was standing up ready to leave the hall. Hermione_Granger jumped up, looking flustered. ‘ron, we’re supposed to show the first-years where to go!’ ‘oh yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley who had obviously forgotten. ‘hey – hey, you lot! midgets!’ ‘ron!’ ‘well, they are, they’re titchy …’ ‘i know, but you can’t call them midgets! – first-years!’ Hermione_Granger called commandingly along the table. ‘this way, please!’ a group of new students walked shyly up the gap between the gryffindor and hufflepuff tables, all of them trying hard not to lead the group. they did indeed seem very small; Harry_Potter was sure he had not appeared that young when he had arrived here. he grinned at them. a blond boy next to Euan_Abercrombie looked petrified; he nudged Euan_Abercrombie and whispered something in his ear. Euan_Abercrombie looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at Harry_Potter, who felt the grin slide off his face like stinksap. ‘see you later,’ he said to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger and he made his way out of the great hall alone, doing everything he could to ignore more whispering, staring and pointing as he passed. he kept his eyes fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in the entrance hall, then he hurried up the marble staircase, took a couple of concealed short cuts and had soon left most of the crowds behind. he had been stupid not to expect this, he thought angrily as he walked through the much emptier upstairs corridors. of course everyone was staring at him; he had emerged from the triwizard maze two months previously clutching the dead body of a fellow student and claiming to have seen Tom_Riddle return to power. there had not been time last term to explain himself before they’d all had to go home – even if he had felt up to giving the whole school a detailed account of the terrible events in that graveyard. Harry_Potter had reached the end of the corridor to the gryffindor common room and come to a halt in front of the portrait of the Fat_Lady before he realised that he did not know the new password. ‘er …’ he said glumly, staring up at the Fat_Lady, who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress and looked sternly back at him. ‘no password, no entrance,’ she said loftily. ‘Harry_Potter, i know it!’ someone panted up behind him and he turned to see Neville_Longbottom jogging towards him. ‘guess what it is? i’m actually going to be able to remember it for once –’ he waved the stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train. ‘mimbulus mimbletonia!’ ‘correct,’ said the Fat_Lady, and her portrait swung open towards them like a door, revealing a circular hole in the wall behind, through which Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom now climbed. the gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever, a cosy circular tower room full of dilapidated squashy armchairs and rickety old tables. a fire was crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were warming their hands by it before going up to their dormitories; on the other side of the room Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley were pinning something up on the noticeboard. Harry_Potter waved good-night to them and headed straight for the door to the boys’ dormitories; he was not in much of a mood for talking at the moment. Neville_Longbottom followed him. Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan had reached the dormitory first and were in the process of covering the walls beside their beds with posters and photographs. they had been talking as Harry_Potter pushed open the door but stopped abruptly the moment they saw him. Harry_Potter wondered whether they had been talking about him, then whether he was being paranoid. ‘hi,’ he said, moving across to his own trunk and opening it. ‘hey, Harry_Potter,’ said Dean_Thomas, who was putting on a pair of pyjamas in the west ham colours. ‘good holiday?’ ‘not bad,’ muttered Harry_Potter, as a true account of his holiday would have taken most of the night to relate and he could not face it. ‘you?’ ‘yeah, it was ok,’ chuckled Dean_Thomas. ‘better than Seamus_Finnigan’s, anyway, he was just telling me.’ ‘why, what happened, Seamus_Finnigan?’ Neville_Longbottom asked as he placed his mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his bedside cabinet. Seamus_Finnigan did not answer immediately; he was making rather a meal of ensuring that his poster of the kenmare kestrels quidditch team was quite straight. then he said, with his back still turned to Harry_Potter, ‘me mam didn’t want me to come back.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter, pausing in the act of pulling off his robes. ‘she didn’t want me to come back to hogwarts.’ Seamus_Finnigan turned away from his poster and pulled his own pyjamas out of his trunk, still not looking at Harry_Potter. ‘but – why?’ said Harry_Potter, astonished. he knew that Seamus_Finnigan’s mother was a witch and could not understand, therefore, why she should have come over so dursleyish. Seamus_Finnigan did not answer until he had finished buttoning his pyjamas. ‘well,’ he said in a measured voice, ‘i suppose … because of you.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. his heart was beating rather fast. he felt vaguely as though something was closing in on him. ‘well,’ said Seamus_Finnigan again, still avoiding Harry_Potter’s eye, ‘she … er … well, it’s not just you, it’s Albus_Dumbledore, too …’ ‘she believes the daily prophet?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘she thinks i’m a liar and Albus_Dumbledore’s an old fool?’ Seamus_Finnigan looked up at him. ‘yeah, something like that.’ Harry_Potter said nothing. he threw his wand down on to his bedside table, pulled off his robes, stuffed them angrily into his trunk and pulled on his pyjamas. he was sick of it; sick of being the person who is stared at and talked about all the time. if any of them knew, if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to be the one all these things had happened to … mrs finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought savagely. he got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed around him, but before he could do so, Seamus_Finnigan said, ‘look … what did happen that night when … you know, when … with Cedric_Diggory and all?’ Seamus_Finnigan sounded nervous and eager at the same time. Dean_Thomas, who had been bending over his trunk trying to retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and Harry_Potter knew he was listening hard. ‘what are you asking me for?’ Harry_Potter retorted. ‘just read the daily prophet like your mother, why don’t you? that’ll tell you all you need to know.’ ‘don’t you have a go at my mother,’ Seamus_Finnigan snapped. ‘i’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘don’t talk to me like that!’ ‘i’ll talk to you how i want,’ said Harry_Potter, his temper rising so fast he snatched his wand back from his bedside table. ‘if you’ve got a problem sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask Minerva_McGonagall if you can be moved … stop your mummy worrying –’ ‘leave my mother out of this, potter!’ ‘what’s going on?’ Ronald_Weasley had appeared in the doorway. his wide eyes travelled from Harry_Potter, who was kneeling on his bed with his wand pointing at Seamus_Finnigan, to Seamus_Finnigan, who was standing there with his fists raised. ‘he’s having a go at my mother!’ Seamus_Finnigan yelled. ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Harry_Potter wouldn’t do that – we met your mother, we liked her …’ ‘that’s before she started believing every word the stinking daily prophet writes about me!’ said Harry_Potter at the top of his voice. ‘oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley comprehension dawning across his freckled face. ‘oh … right.’ ‘you know what?’ said Seamus_Finnigan heatedly, casting Harry_Potter a venomous look. ‘he’s right, i don’t want to share a dormitory with him any more, he’s mad.’ ‘that’s out of order, Seamus_Finnigan,’ said Ronald_Weasley whose ears were starting to glow red – always a danger sign. ‘out of order, am i?’ shouted Seamus_Finnigan, who in contrast with Ronald_Weasley was going pale. ‘you believe all the rubbish he’s come out with about Tom_Riddle, do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?’ ‘yeah, i do!’ said Ronald_Weasley angrily. ‘then you’re mad, too,’ said Seamus_Finnigan in disgust. ‘yeah? well, unfortunately for you, pal, i’m also a prefect!’ said Ronald_Weasley jabbing himself in the chest with a finger. ‘so unless you want detention, watch your mouth!’ Seamus_Finnigan looked for a few seconds as though detention would be a reasonable price to pay to say what was going through his mind; but with a noise of contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed and pulled the hangings shut with such violence that they were ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the floor. Ronald_Weasley glared at Seamus_Finnigan, then looked at Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom. ‘anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry_Potter?’ he said aggressively. ‘my parents are muggles, mate,’ said Dean_Thomas, shrugging. ‘they don’t know nothing about no deaths at hogwarts, because i’m not stupid enough to tell them.’ ‘you don’t know my mother, she’d weasel anything out of anyone!’ Seamus_Finnigan snapped at him. ‘anyway, your parents don’t get the daily prophet. they don’t know our headmaster’s been sacked from the wizengamot and the international confederation of wizards because he’s losing his marbles –’ ‘my gran says that’s rubbish,’ piped up Neville_Longbottom. ‘she says it’s the daily prophet that’s going downhill, not Albus_Dumbledore. she’s cancelled our subscription. we believe Harry_Potter,’ said Neville_Longbottom simply. he climbed into bed and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them at Seamus_Finnigan. ‘my gran’s always said Tom_Riddle would come back one day. she says if Albus_Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back.’ Harry_Potter felt a rush of gratitude towards Neville_Longbottom. nobody else said anything. Seamus_Finnigan got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings and vanished behind them. Dean_Thomas got into bed, rolled over and fell silent. Neville_Longbottom, who appeared to have nothing more to say either, was gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus. Harry_Potter lay back on his pillows while Ronald_Weasley bustled around the next bed, putting his things away. he felt shaken by the argument with Seamus_Finnigan, whom he had always liked very much. how many more people were going to suggest that he was lying, or unhinged? had Albus_Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as first the wizengamot, then the international confederation of wizards had thrown him from their ranks? was it anger at Harry_Potter, perhaps, that had stopped Albus_Dumbledore getting in touch with him for months? the two of them were in this together, after all; Albus_Dumbledore had believed Harry_Potter, announced his version of events to the whole school and then to the wider wizarding community. anyone who thought Harry_Potter was a liar had to think that Albus_Dumbledore was, too, or else that Albus_Dumbledore had been hoodwinked … they’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry_Potter miserably, as Ronald_Weasley got into bed and extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. but he wondered how many more attacks like Seamus_Finnigan’s he would have to endure before that time came. 