— chapter twelve — the polyjuice potion they stepped off the stone staircase at the top and professor Minerva_McGonagall rapped on the door. it opened silently and they entered. professor Minerva_McGonagall told Harry_Potter to wait, and left him there, alone. Harry_Potter looked around. one thing was certain: of all the teachers’ offices Harry_Potter had visited so far this year, Albus_Dumbledore’s was by far the most interesting. if he hadn’t been scared out of his wits that he was about to be thrown out of school, he would have been very pleased to have a chance to look around it. it was a large and beautiful circular room, full of funny little noises. a number of curious silver instruments stood on spindle-legged tables, whirring and emitting little puffs of smoke. the walls were covered with portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses, all of whom were snoozing gently in their frames. there was also an enormous, claw-footed desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a shabby, tattered wizard’s hat – the sorting hat. Harry_Potter hesitated. he cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches and wizards on the walls. surely it couldn’t hurt if he took the hat down and tried it on again? just to see … just to make sure it had put him in the right house. he walked quietly around the desk, lifted the hat from its shelf, and lowered it slowly onto his head. it was much too large and slipped down over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he’d put it on. Harry_Potter stared at the black inside of the hat, waiting. then a small voice said in his ear, ‘bee in your bonnet, Harry_Potter?’ ‘er, yes,’ Harry_Potter muttered. ‘er – sorry to bother you – i wanted to ask –’ ‘you’ve been wondering whether i put you in the right house,’ said the hat smartly. ‘yes … you were particularly difficult to place. but i stand by what i said before –’ Harry_Potter’s heart leapt ‘– you would have done well in slytherin.’ Harry_Potter’s stomach plummeted. he grabbed the point of the hat and pulled it off. it hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded. Harry_Potter pushed it back onto its shelf, feeling sick. ‘you’re wrong,’ he said aloud to the still and silent hat. it didn’t move. Harry_Potter backed away, watching it. then a strange, gagging noise behind him made him wheel around.   he wasn’t alone after all. standing on a golden perch behind the door was a decrepit-looking bird which resembled a half-plucked turkey. Harry_Potter stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, making its gagging noise again. Harry_Potter thought it looked very ill. its eyes were dull and, even as Harry_Potter watched, a couple more feathers fell out of its tail. Harry_Potter was just thinking that all he needed was for Albus_Dumbledore’s pet bird to die while he was alone in the office with it, when the bird burst into flames. Harry_Potter yelled in shock and backed away into the desk. he looked feverishly around in case there was a glass of water somewhere, but couldn’t see one. the bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave one loud shriek and next second there was nothing but a smouldering pile of ash on the floor. the office door opened. Albus_Dumbledore came in, looking very sombre. ‘professor,’ Harry_Potter gasped, ‘your bird – i couldn’t do anything – he just caught fire –’ to Harry_Potter’s astonishment, Albus_Dumbledore smiled. ‘about time, too,’ he said. ‘he’s been looking dreadful for days, i’ve been telling him to get a move on.’ he chuckled at the stunned look on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry_Potter. phoenixes burst into flame when it is time for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. watch him …’ Harry_Potter looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, new-born bird poke its head out of the ashes. it was quite as ugly as the old one. ‘it’s a shame you had to see him on a burning day,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, seating himself behind his desk. ‘he’s really very handsome most of the time: wonderful red and gold plumage. fascinating creatures, phoenixes. they can carry immensely heavy loads, their tears have healing powers and they make highly faithful pets.’ in the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry_Potter had forgotten what he was there for, but it all came back to him as Albus_Dumbledore settled himself in the high-backed chair behind the desk and fixed Harry_Potter with his penetrating, light- blue stare. before Albus_Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the door of the office flew open with an almighty bang and Rubeus_Hagrid burst in, a wild look in his eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his shaggy black head and the dead rooster still swinging from his hand. ‘it wasn’ Harry_Potter, professor Albus_Dumbledore!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid urgently. ‘i was talkin’ ter him seconds before that kid was found, he never had time, sir …’ Albus_Dumbledore tried to say something, but Rubeus_Hagrid went ranting on, waving the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers everywhere. ‘… it can’t’ve bin him, i’ll swear it in front o’ the ministry o’ magic if i have to …’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, i –’ ‘… yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, i know Harry_Potter never –’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid!’ said Albus_Dumbledore loudly. ‘i do not think that Harry_Potter attacked those people.’ ‘oh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. ‘right. i’ll wait outside then, headmaster.’ and he stomped out looking embarrassed. ‘you don’t think it was me, professor?’ Harry_Potter repeated Hope_Howellfully, as Albus_Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk. ‘no, Harry_Potter, i don’t,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, though his face was sombre again. ‘but i still want to talk to you.’ Harry_Potter waited nervously while Albus_Dumbledore considered him, the tips of his long fingers together. ‘i must ask you, Harry_Potter, whether there is anything you’d like to tell me,’ he said gently. ‘anything at all.’ Harry_Potter didn’t know what to say. he thought of malfoy shouting, ‘you’ll be next, mudbloods!’ and of the polyjuice potion, simmering away in Myrtle_Warren’s bathroom. then he thought of the disembodied voice he had heard twice and remembered what Ronald_Weasley had said: ‘hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the wizarding world.’ he thought, too, about what everyone was saying about him, and his growing dread that he was somehow connected with Salazar_Slytherin … ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘there isn’t anything, professor.’ * the double attack on Justin_Finch-Fletchley and Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington turned what had hitherto been nervousness into real panic. curiously, it was Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s fate that seemed to worry people most. what could possibly do that to a ghost, people asked each other; what terrible power could harm someone who was already dead? there was almost a stampede to book seats on the hogwarts express so that students could go home for christmas. ‘at this rate, we’ll be the only ones left,’ Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger. ‘us, malfoy, crabbe and Goyle. what a jolly holiday it’s going to be.’ crabbe and Goyle, who always did whatever malfoy did, had signed up to stay over the holidays too. but Harry_Potter was glad that most people were leaving. he was tired of people skirting around him in the corridors, as though he was about to sprout Fangs or spit poison; tired of all the muttering, pointing and hissing as he passed. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, however, found all this very funny. they went out of their way to march ahead of Harry_Potter down the corridors, shouting, ‘make way for the heir of slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming through …’ Percy_Weasley was deeply disapproving of this behaviour. ‘it is not a laughing matter,’ he said coldly. ‘oh, get out of the way, Percy_Weasley,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘Harry_Potter’s in a hurry.’ ‘yeah, he’s nipping off to the chamber of secrets for a cup of tea with his Fanged servant,’ said George_Weasley, chortling. Ginevra_Weasley didn’t find it amusing either. ‘oh, don’t,’ she wailed every time Fred_Weasley asked Harry_Potter loudly who he was planning to attack next, or George_Weasley pretended to ward Harry_Potter off with a large clove of garlic when they met. Harry_Potter didn’t mind; it made him feel better that Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, at least, thought the idea of his being slytherin’s heir was quite ludicrous. but their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco_Malfoy, who looked increasingly sour each time he saw them at it. ‘it’s because he’s bursting to say it’s really him,’ said Ronald_Weasley knowingly. ‘you know how he hates anyone beating him at anything, and you’re getting all the credit for his dirty work.’ ‘not for long,’ said Hermione_Granger in a satisfied tone. ‘the polyjuice potion’s nearly ready. we’ll be getting the truth out of him any day now.’ * at last the term ended, and a silence deep as the snow on the grounds descended on the castle. Harry_Potter found it peaceful, rather than Gloomy_nuns, and enjoyed the fact that he, Hermione_Granger and the weasleys had the run of gryffindor tower, which meant they could play exploding snap loudly without bothering anyone, and practise duelling in private. Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley had chosen to stay at school rather than visit William_Weasley in egypt with mr and Molly_Weasley. Percy_Weasley, who disapproved of what he termed their childish behaviour, didn’t spend much time in the gryffindor common room. he had already told them pompously that he was only staying over christmas because it was his duty as a prefect to support the teachers during this troubled time. christmas morning dawned, cold and white. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley the only ones left in their dormitory, were woken very early by Hermione_Granger, who burst in, fully dressed and carrying presents for them both. ‘wake up,’ she said loudly, pulling back the curtains at the window. ‘Hermione_Granger – you’re not supposed to be in here,’ said Ronald_Weasley shielding his eyes against the light. ‘merry christmas to you, too,’ said Hermione_Granger, throwing him his present. ‘i’ve been up for nearly an hour, adding more lacewings to the potion. it’s ready.’ Harry_Potter sat up, suddenly wide awake. ‘are you sure?’ ‘positive,’ said Hermione_Granger, shifting scabbers the rat so that she could sit down on the end of his four-poster. ‘if we’re going to do it, i say it should be tonight.’ at that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, carrying a very small package in her beak. ‘hello,’ said Harry_Potter happily, as she landed on his bed, ‘are you speaking to me again?’ she nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far better present than the one which she had brought him, which turned out to be from Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley. they had sent Harry_Potter a toothpick and a note telling him to find out whether he’d be able to stay at hogwarts for the summer holidays, too. the rest of Harry_Potter’s christmas presents were far more satisfactory. Rubeus_Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle fudge, which Harry_Potter decided to soften by the fire before eating; Ronald_Weasley had given him a book called flying with the cannons, a book of interesting facts about his favourite quidditch team; and Hermione_Granger had bought him a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry_Potter opened the last present to find a new, hand-knitted jumper from Molly_Weasley, and a large plum cake. he put up her card with a fresh surge of guilt, thinking about Arthur_Weasley’s car, which hadn’t been seen since its crash with the whomping willow, and the bout of rule-breaking he and Ronald_Weasley were planning next. * no one, not even someone dreading taking polyjuice potion later, could fail to enjoy christmas dinner at hogwarts. the great hall looked magnificent. not only were there a dozen frost- covered christmas trees and thick streamers of holly and mistletoe criss- crossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling, warm and dry, from the ceiling. Albus_Dumbledore led them in a few of his favourite carols, Rubeus_Hagrid booming more and more loudly with every goblet of eggnog he consumed. Percy_Weasley, who hadn’t notiCedric_Diggory that Fred_Weasley had bewitched his prefect badge so that it now read ‘pinhead’, kept asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry_Potter didn’t even care that Draco_Malfoy was making loud, snide remarks about his new jumper from the slytherin table. with a bit of luck, malfoy would be getting his come-uppance in a few hours’ time. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley had barely finished their third helpings of christmas pudding when Hermione_Granger ushered them out of the hall to finalise their plans for the evening. ‘we still need a bit of the people you’re changing into,’ said Hermione_Granger matter-of-factly, as though she was sending them to the supermarket for washing-powder. ‘and obviously, it’ll be best if you can get something of crabbe and Goyle’s; they’re malfoy’s best friends, he’ll tell them anything. and we also need to make sure the real crabbe and Goyle can’t burst in on us while we’re interrogating him. ‘i’ve got it all worked out,’ she went on smoothly, ignoring Harry_Potter and ron’s stupefied faces. she held up two plump chocolate cakes. ‘i’ve filled these with a simple sleeping draught. all you have to do is make sure crabbe and Goyle find them. you know how greedy they are, they’re bound to eat them. once they’re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide them in a broom cupboard.’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley looked incredulously at each other. ‘Hermione_Granger, i don’t think –’ ‘that could go seriously wrong –’ but Hermione_Granger had a steely glint in her eye not unlike the one professor Minerva_McGonagall sometimes had. ‘the potion will be useless without crabbe and Goyle’s hair,’ she said sternly. ‘you do want to investigate malfoy, don’t you?’ ‘oh, all right, all right,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but what about you? whose hair are you ripping out?’ ‘i’ve already got mine!’ said Hermione_Granger brightly, pulling a tiny bottle out of her pocket and showing them the single hair inside it. ‘remember Millicent_Bulstrode wrestling with me at the duelling club? she left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle me! and she’s gone home for christmas – so i’ll just have to tell the slytherins i’ve decided to come back.’ when Hermione_Granger had bustled off to check on the polyjuice potion again, Ronald_Weasley turned to Harry_Potter with a doom-laden expression. ‘have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong?’ * but to Harry_Potter and ron’s utter amazement, stage one of the operation went just as smoothly as Hermione_Granger had said. they lurked in the deserted entrance hall after christmas tea, waiting for crabbe and Goyle, who had remained alone at the slytherin table, shovelling down fourth helpings of trifle. Harry_Potter had perched the chocolate cakes on the end of the banisters. when they spotted crabbe and Goyle coming out of the great hall, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley hid quickly behind a suit of armour next to the front door. ‘how thick can you get?’ Ronald_Weasley whispered ecstatically, as crabbe gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle and grabbed them. grinning stupidly, they stuffed the cakes whole into their large mouths. for a moment, both of them chewed greedily, looks of triumph on their faces. then, without the smallest change of expression, they both keeled over backwards onto the floor. much the most difficult bit was hiding them in the cupboard across the hall. once they were safely stowed amongst the buckets and mops, Harry_Potter yanked out a couple of the bristles that covered Goyle’s forehead and Ronald_Weasley pulled out several of crabbe’s hairs. they also stole their shoes, because their own were far too small for crabbe- and Goyle-sized feet. then, still stunned at what they had just done, they sprinted up to Myrtle_Warren’s bathroom. they could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the cubicle in which Hermione_Granger was stirring the cauldron. pulling their robes up over their faces, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley knocked softly on the door. ‘Hermione_Granger?’ they heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione_Granger emerged, shiny-faCedric_Diggory and looking anxious. behind her they heard the gloop gloop of the bubbling, treacle-thick potion. three glass tumblers stood ready on the toilet seat. ‘did you get them?’ Hermione_Granger asked breathlessly. Harry_Potter showed her Goyle’s hair. ‘good. and i sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,’ Hermione_Granger said, holding up a small sack. ‘you’ll need bigger sizes once you’re crabbe and Goyle.’ the three of them stared into the cauldron. close up, the potion looked like thick, dark mud, bubbling sluggishly. ‘i’m sure i’ve done everything right,’ said Hermione_Granger, nervously re-reading the splotched page of moste potente potions. ‘it looks like the book says it should … once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have exactly an hour before we change back into ourselves.’ ‘now what?’ Ronald_Weasley whispered. ‘we separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.’ Hermione_Granger ladled large dollops of the potion into each of the glasses. then, her hand trembling, she shook Millicent_Bulstrode’s hair out of its bottle into the first glass. the potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and frothed madly. a second later, it had turned a sick sort of yellow. ‘urgh – essence of Millicent_Bulstrode,’ said Ronald_Weasley eyeing it with loathing. ‘bet it tastes disgusting.’ ‘add yours, then,’ said Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter dropped Goyle’s hair into the middle glass and Ronald_Weasley put crabbe’s into the last one. both glasses hissed and frothed: Goyle’s turned the khaki colour of a bogey, crabbe’s a dark, murky brown. ‘hang on,’ said Harry_Potter, as Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger reached for their glasses. ‘we’d better not all drink them in here: once we turn into crabbe and Goyle we won’t fit. and Millicent_Bulstrode’s no pixie.’ ‘good thinking,’ said Ronald_Weasley unlocking the door. ‘we’ll take separate cubicles.’ careful not to spill a drop of his polyjuice potion, Harry_Potter slipped into the middle cubicle. ‘ready?’ he called. ‘ready,’ came Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s voices. ‘one … two … three …’ pinching his nose, Harry_Potter drank the potion down in two large gulps. it tasted like overCook_of_The_Hanged_Maned cabbage. immediately, his insides started writhing as though he’d just swallowed live snakes – doubled up, he wondered whether he was going to be sick – then a burning sensation spread rapidly from his stomach to the very ends of his fingers and toes. next, bringing him gasping to all fours, came a horrible melting feeling, as the skin all over his body bubbled like hot wax, and before his eyes, his hands began to grow, the fingers thickened, the nails broadened and the knuckles were bulging like bolts. his shoulders stretched painfully and a prickling on his forehead told him that hair was creeping down towards his eyebrows; his robes ripped as his chest expanded like a barrel bursting its hoops; his feet were agony in shoes four sizes too small … as suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry_Potter lay face down on the cold stone floor, listening to Myrtle_Warren gurgling morosely in the end toilet. with difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. so this was what it felt like, being Goyle. his large hands trembling, he pulled off his old robes, which were hanging a foot above his ankles, pulled on the spare ones and laCedric_Diggory up Goyle’s boat-like shoes. he reached up to brush his hair out of his eyes and met only the short growth of wiry bristles, low on his forehead. then he realised that his glasses were clouding his eyes, because Goyle obviously didn’t need them. he took them off and called, ‘are you two ok?’ Goyle’s low rasp of a voice issued from his mouth. ‘yeah,’ came the deep grunt of crabbe from his right. Harry_Potter unlocked his door and stepped in front of the cracked mirror. Goyle stared back at him out of dull, deep-set eyes. Harry_Potter scratched his ear. so did Goyle. ron’s door opened. they stared at each other. except that he looked pale and shocked, Ronald_Weasley was indistinguishable from crabbe, from the pudding-basin haircut to the long, gorilla arms. ‘this is unbelievable,’ said Ronald_Weasley approaching the mirror and prodding crabbe’s flat nose. ‘unbelievable.’ ‘we’d better get going,’ said Harry_Potter, loosening the watch that was cutting into Goyle’s thick wrist. ‘we’ve still got to find out where the slytherin common room is, i only Hope_Howell we can find someone to follow …’ Ronald_Weasley who had been gazing at Harry_Potter, said, ‘you don’t know how bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking.’ he banged on Hermione_Granger’s door. ‘c’mon, we need to go …’ a high-pitched voice answered him. ‘i – i don’t think i’m going to come after all. you go on without me.’ ‘Hermione_Granger, we know Millicent_Bulstrode’s ugly, no one’s going to know it’s you.’ ‘no – really – i don’t think i’ll come. you two hurry up, you’re wasting time.’ Harry_Potter looked at Ronald_Weasley bewildered. ‘that looks more like Goyle,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘that’s how he looks every time a teacher asks him a question.’ ‘Hermione_Granger, are you ok?’ said Harry_Potter through the door. ‘fine – i’m fine … go on –’ Harry_Potter looked at his watch. five of their precious sixty minutes had already passed. ‘we’ll meet you back here, all right?’ he said. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley opened the door of the bathroom carefully, checked that the coast was clear and set off. ‘don’t swing your arms like that,’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley ‘eh?’ ‘crabbe holds them sort of stiff …’ ‘how’s this?’ ‘yeah, that’s better.’ they went down the marble staircase. all they needed now was a slytherin whom they could follow to the slytherin common room, but there was nobody around. ‘any ideas?’ muttered Harry_Potter. ‘the slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there,’ said Ronald_Weasley nodding at the entrance to the Mundungus_Fletchereons. the words had barely left his mouth when a girl with long curly hair emerged from the entrance. ‘excuse me,’ said Ronald_Weasley hurrying up to her, ‘we’ve forgotten the way to our common room.’ ‘i beg your pardon?’ said the girl stiffly. ‘our common room? i’m a ravenclaw.’ she walked away, looking suspiciously back at them. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley hurried down the stone steps into the darkness, their footsteps echoing particularly loudly as crabbe and Goyle’s huge feet hit the floor, feeling that this wasn’t going to be as easy as they had Hope_Howelld. the labyrinthine passages were deserted. they walked deeper and deeper under the school, constantly checking their watches to see how much time they had left. after a quarter of an hour, just when they were getting desperate, they heard a sudden movement ahead. ‘ha!’ said Ronald_Weasley excitedly. ‘there’s one of them now!’ the figure was emerging from a side room. as they hurried nearer, however, their hearts sank. it wasn’t a slytherin, it was Percy_Weasley. ‘what’re you doing down here?’ said Ronald_Weasley in surprise. Percy_Weasley looked affronted. ‘that,’ he said stiffly, ‘is none of your business. it’s crabbe, isn’t it?’ ‘wh– oh, yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘well, get off to your dormitories,’ said Percy_Weasley sternly. ‘it’s not safe to go wandering around dark corridors these days.’ ‘you are,’ Ronald_Weasley pointed out. ‘i,’ said Percy_Weasley, drawing himself up, ‘am a prefect. nothing’s about to attack me.’ a voice suddenly echoed behind Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley Draco_Malfoy was strolling towards them, and for the first time in his life, Harry_Potter was pleased to see him. ‘there you are,’ he drawled, looking at them. ‘have you two been pigging out in the great hall all this time? i’ve been looking for you, i want to show you something really funny.’ malfoy glanCedric_Diggory witheringly at Percy_Weasley. ‘and what’re you doing down here, weasley?’ he sneered. Percy_Weasley looked outraged. ‘you want to show a bit more respect to a school prefect!’ he said. ‘i don’t like your attitude!’ malfoy sneered and motioned Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley to follow him. Harry_Potter almost said something apologetic to Percy_Weasley but caught himself just in time. he and Ronald_Weasley hurried after malfoy, who said as they turned into the next passage, ‘that Peter_Pettigrew weasley –’ ‘Percy_Weasley,’ Ronald_Weasley corrected him automatically. ‘whatever,’ said malfoy. ‘i’ve notiCedric_Diggory him sneaking around a lot lately. and i bet i know what he’s up to. he thinks he’s going to catch slytherin’s heir single-handed.’ he gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley exchanged excited looks. malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall. ‘what’s the new password again?’ he said to Harry_Potter. ‘er –’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh yeah – pure-blood!’ said malfoy, not listening, and a stone door concealed in the wall slid open. malfoy marched through it and Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley followed him. the slytherin common room was a long, low underground room with rough stone walls and ceiling, from which round, greenish lamps were hanging on chains. a fire was crackling under an elaborately carved mantelpiece ahead of them, and several slytherins were silhouetted around it in carved chairs. ‘wait here,’ said malfoy to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley motioning them to a pair of empty chairs set back from the fire. ‘i’ll go and get it – my father’s just sent it to me –’ wondering what malfoy was going to show them, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley sat down, doing their best to look at home. malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked like a newspaper cutting. he thrust it under ron’s nose. ‘that’ll give you a laugh,’ he said. Harry_Potter saw ron’s eyes widen in shock. he read the cutting quickly, gave a very forCedric_Diggory laugh and handed it to Harry_Potter. it had been clipped out of the daily prophet, and it said: enquiry at the ministry of magic Arthur_Weasley, head of the misuse of muggle artefacts office, was today fined fifty galleons for bewitching a muggle car. mr Lucius_Malfoy, a governor of hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, where the enchanted car crashed earlier this year, called today for Arthur_Weasley’s resignation. ‘weasley has brought the ministry into disrepute,’ mr malfoy told our reporter. ‘he is clearly unfit to draw up our laws and his ridiculous muggle protection act should be scrapped immediately.’ Arthur_Weasley was unavailable for comment, although his wife told reporters to clear off or she’d set the family ghoul on them. ‘well?’ said malfoy impatiently, as Harry_Potter handed the cutting back to him. ‘don’t you think it’s funny?’ ‘ha, ha,’ said Harry_Potter bleakly. ‘Arthur_Weasley loves muggles so much he should snap his wand in half and go and join them,’ said malfoy scornfully. ‘you’d never know the weasleys were pure-bloods, the way they behave.’ ron’s – or rather, crabbe’s – face was contorted with fury. ‘what’s up with you, crabbe?’ snapped malfoy. ‘stomach ache,’ Ronald_Weasley grunted. ‘well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those mudbloods a kick from me,’ said malfoy, sNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtonering. ‘you know, i’m surprised the daily prophet hasn’t reported all these attacks yet,’ he went on thoughtfully. ‘i suppose Albus_Dumbledore’s trying to hush it all up. he’ll be sacked if it doesn’t stop soon. father’s always said Albus_Dumbledore’s the worst thing that’s ever happened to this place. he loves muggle-borns. a decent headmaster would never’ve let slime like that creevey in.’ malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary camera and did a cruel but accurate impression of Colin_Creevey: ‘potter, can i have your picture, potter? can i have your autograph? can i lick your shoes, please, potter?’ he dropped his hands and looked at Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ‘what’s the matter with you two?’    far too late, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley forCedric_Diggory themselves to laugh, but malfoy seemed satisfied; perhaps crabbe and Goyle were always slow on the uptake. ‘saint potter, the mudbloods’ friend,’ said malfoy slowly. ‘he’s another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldn’t go around with that jumped-up granger mudblood. and people think he’s slytherin’s heir!’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley waited with bated breath: malfoy was surely seconds away from telling them it was him. but then – ‘i wish i knew who it is,’ said malfoy petulantly. ‘i could help them.’ ron’s jaw dropped so that crabbe’s face looked even more gormless than usual. fortunately, malfoy didn’t notice, and Harry_Potter, thinking fast, said, ‘you must have some idea who’s behind it all …’ ‘you know i haven’t, Goyle, how many times do i have to tell you?’ snapped malfoy. ‘and father won’t tell me anything about the last time the chamber was opened, either. of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept quiet and it’ll look suspicious if i know too much about it. but i know one thing: last time the chamber of secrets was opened, a mudblood died. so i bet it’s only a matter of time before one of them’s killed this time … i Hope_Howell it’s granger,’ he said with relish. Ronald_Weasley was clenching crabbe’s gigantic fists. feeling that it would be a bit of a give-away if Ronald_Weasley punched malfoy, Harry_Potter shot him a warning look and said, ‘d’you know if the person who opened the chamber last time was caught?’ ‘oh, yeah … whoever it was was expelled,’ said malfoy. ‘they’re probably still in azkaban.’ ‘azkaban?’ said Harry_Potter, puzzled. ‘azkaban – the wizard prison, Goyle,’ said malfoy, looking at him in disbelief. ‘honestly, if you were any slower, you’d be going backwards.’ he shifted restlessly in his chair and said, ‘father says to keep my head down and let the heir of slytherin get on with it. he says the school needs ridding of all the mudblood filth, but not to get mixed up in it. of course, he’s got a lot on his plate at the moment. you know the ministry of magic raided our manor last week?’ Harry_Potter tried to force Goyle’s dull face into a look of concern. ‘yeah …’ said malfoy. ‘luckily, they didn’t find much. father’s got some very valuable dark arts stuff. but luckily, we’ve got our own secret chamber under the drawing-room floor –’ ‘ho!’ said Ronald_Weasley malfoy looked at him. so did Harry_Potter. Ronald_Weasley blushed. even his hair was turning red. his nose was also slowly lengthening – their hour was up. Ronald_Weasley was turning back into himself, and from the look of horror he was suddenly giving Harry_Potter, he must be, too. they both jumped to their feet. ‘medicine for my stomach,’ Ronald_Weasley grunted, and without further ado they sprinted the length of the slytherin common room, hurled themselves at the stone wall and dashed up the passage, hoping against Hope_Howell that malfoy hadn’t notiCedric_Diggory anything. Harry_Potter could feel his feet slipping around in Goyle’s huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the steps into the dark entrance hall, which was full of a muffled pounding coming from the cupboard where they’d locked crabbe and Goyle. leaving their shoes outside the cupboard door, they sprinted in their socks up the marble staircase towards Myrtle_Warren’s bathroom. ‘well, it wasn’t a complete waste of time,’ Ronald_Weasley panted, closing the bathroom door behind them. ‘i know we still haven’t found out who’s doing the attacks, but i’m going to write to dad tomorrow and tell him to check under the malfoys’ drawing room.’ Harry_Potter checked his face in the cracked mirror. he was back to normal. he put his glasses on as Ronald_Weasley hammered on the door of Hermione_Granger’s cubicle. ‘Hermione_Granger, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you –’ ‘go away!’ Hermione_Granger squeaked. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley looked at each other. ‘what’s the matter?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you must be back to normal by now, we are …’ but Myrtle_Warren glided suddenly through the cubicle door. Harry_Potter had never seen her looking so happy. ‘ooooooh, wait till you see,’ she said. ‘it’s awful!’ they heard the lock slide back and Hermione_Granger emerged, sobbing, her robes pulled up over her head. ‘what’s up?’ said Ronald_Weasley uncertainly. ‘have you still got Millicent_Bulstrode’s nose or something?’ Hermione_Granger let her robes fall and Ronald_Weasley backed into the sink. her face was covered in black fur. her eyes had gone yellow and there were long pointed ears poking through her hair. ‘it was a c-cat hair!’ she howled. ‘m-Millicent_Bulstrode m-must have a cat! and the p-potion isn’t supposed to be used for animal transformations!’ ‘uh oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you’ll be teased something dreadful,’ said Myrtle_Warren happily. ‘it’s ok, Hermione_Granger,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘we’ll take you up to the hospital wing. madam pomfrey never asks too many questions …’ it took a long time to persuade Hermione_Granger to leave the bathroom. Myrtle_Warren sped them on their way with a hearty guffaw. ‘wait till everyone finds out you’ve got a tail!’ 