— chapter fourteen — Cornelius_Fudge Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had always known that Rubeus_Hagrid had an unfortunate liking for large and monstrous creatures. during their first year at hogwarts he had tried to raise a dragon in his little wooden house, and it would be a long time before they forgot the giant, three-headed dog he’d christened ‘Fluffy’. and if, as a boy, Rubeus_Hagrid had heard that a monster was hidden somewhere in the castle, Harry_Potter was sure he’d have gone to any lengths for a glimpse of it. he’d probably thought it was a shame that the monster had been cooped up so long, and thought it deserved the chance to stretch its many legs; Harry_Potter could just imagine the thirteen-year-old Rubeus_Hagrid trying to fit a lead and collar on it. but he was equally certain that Rubeus_Hagrid would never have meant to kill anybody. Harry_Potter half-wished he hadn’t found out how to work riddle’s diary. again and again Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger made him recount what he’d seen, until he was heartily sick of telling them and sick of the long, circular conversations that followed. ‘riddle might have got the wrong person,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘maybe it was some other monster that was attacking people …’ ‘how many monsters d’you think this place can hold?’ Ronald_Weasley asked dully. ‘we always knew Rubeus_Hagrid had been expelled,’ said Harry_Potter miserably. ‘and the attacks must’ve stopped after Rubeus_Hagrid was kicked out. otherwise, riddle wouldn’t have got his award.’ Ronald_Weasley tried a different tack. ‘riddle does sound like Percy_Weasley – who asked him to grass on Rubeus_Hagrid, anyway?’ ‘but the monster had killed someone, Ronald_Weasley’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘and riddle was going to go back to some muggle orphanage if they closed hogwarts,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i don’t blame him for wanting to stay here …’ Ronald_Weasley bit his lip, then said tentatively, ‘you met Rubeus_Hagrid down knockturn alley, didn’t you, Harry_Potter?’ ‘he was buying a flesh-eating slug repellent,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. the three of them fell silent. after a long pause, Hermione_Granger voiCedric_Diggory the   knottiest question of all in a hesitant voice: ‘do you think we should go and ask Rubeus_Hagrid about it all?’ ‘that’d be a cheerful visit,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘hello, Rubeus_Hagrid, tell us,have you been setting anything mad and hairy loose in the castle lately?’ in the end, they decided that they wouldn’t say anything to Rubeus_Hagrid unless there was another attack, and as more and more days went by with no whisper from the disembodied voice, they became Hope_Howellful that they would never need to talk to him about why he had been expelled. it was now nearly four months since Justin_Finch-Fletchley and Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington had been petrified, and nearly everybody seemed to think that the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. Peeves had finally got bored of his ‘oh potter, you rotter’ song, Ernest_Prangmacmillan asked Harry_Potter quite politely to pass a bucket of leaping toadstools in herbology one day, and in march several of the mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in greenhouse three. this made professor sprout very happy. ‘the moment they start trying to move into each other’s pots, we’ll know they’re fully mature,’ she told Harry_Potter. ‘then we’ll be able to revive those poor people in the hospital wing.’ * the second-years were given something new to think about during their easter holidays. the time had come to choose their subjects for the third year, a matter that Hermione_Granger, at least, took very seriously. ‘it could affect our whole future,’ she told Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley as they pored over lists of new subjects, marking them with ticks. ‘i just want to give up potions,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we can’t,’ said Ronald_Weasley gloomily. ‘we keep all our old subjects, or i’d’ve ditched defence against the dark arts.’ ‘but that’s very important!’ said Hermione_Granger, shocked. ‘not the way lockhart teaches it,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i haven’t learned anything from him except not to set pixies loose.’ Neville_Longbottom had been sent letters from all the witches and wizards in his family, all giving him different advice on what to choose. confused and worried, he sat reading the subject lists with his tongue poking out, asking people whether they thought arithmancy sounded more difficult than study of ancient runes. Dean_Thomas, who, like Harry_Potter, had grown up with muggles, ended up closing his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then picking the subjects it landed on. Hermione_Granger took nobody’s advice but signed up for everything. Harry_Potter smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what uncle Vernon_Dursley and aunt Petunia_Dursley would say if he tried to discuss his career in wizardry with them. not that he didn’t get any guidance: Percy_Weasley was eager to share his experience. ‘depends where you want to go, Harry_Potter,’ he said. ‘it’s never too early to think about the future, so i’d recommend divination. people say muggle studies is a soft option, but i personally think wizards should have a thorough understanding of the non-magical community, particularly if they’re thinking of working in close contact with them – look at my father, he has to deal with muggle business all the time. my brother Charles_Weasley was always more of an outdoor type, so he went for care of magical creatures. play to your strengths, Harry_Potter.’ but the only thing Harry_Potter felt he was really good at was quidditch. in the end, he chose the same new subjects as Ronald_Weasley feeling that if he was rubbish at them, at least he’d have someone friendly to help him. * gryffindor’s next quidditch match would be against hufflepuff. wood was insisting on team practices every night after dinner, so that Harry_Potter barely had time for anything but quidditch and homework. however, the training sessions were getting better, or at least drier, and the evening before saturday’s match, he went up to his dormitory to drop off his broomstick, feeling gryffindor’s chances for the quidditch cup had never been better. but his cheerful mood didn’t last long. at the top of the stairs to the dormitory, he met Neville_Longbottom, who was looking frantic. ‘Harry_Potter – i don’t know who did it. i just found –’ watching Harry_Potter fearfully, Neville_Longbottom pushed open the door. the contents of Harry_Potter’s trunk had been thrown everywhere. his cloak lay ripped on the floor. the bedclothes had been pulled off his four-poster and the drawer had been pulled out of his bedside cabinet, the contents strewn over the mattress. Harry_Potter walked over to the bed, open-mouthed, treading on a few loose pages of travels with trolls. as he and Neville_Longbottom pulled the blankets back onto his bed, Ronald_Weasley Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan came in. Dean_Thomas swore loudly. ‘what happened, Harry_Potter?’ ‘no idea,’ said Harry_Potter. but Ronald_Weasley was examining Harry_Potter’s robes. all the pockets were hanging out. ‘someone’s been looking for something,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘is there anything missing?’ Harry_Potter started to pick up all his things and throw them into his trunk. it was only as he threw the last of the lockhart books back into it that he realised what wasn’t there. ‘riddle’s diary’s gone,’ he said in an undertone to Ronald_Weasley ‘what?’ Harry_Potter jerked his head towards the dormitory door and Ronald_Weasley followed him out. they hurried back down to the gryffindor common room, which was half-empty, and joined Hermione_Granger, who was sitting alone, reading a book called ancient runes made easy. Hermione_Granger looked aghast at the news. ‘but – only a gryffindor could have stolen – nobody else knows our password …’ ‘exactly,’ said Harry_Potter. * they woke next day to brilliant sunshine and a light, refreshing breeze. ‘perfect quidditch conditions!’ said wood enthusiastically at the gryffindor table, loading the team’s plates with scrambled eggs. ‘Harry_Potter, buck up there, you need a decent breakfast.’ Harry_Potter had been staring down the packed gryffindor table, wondering if the new owner of riddle’s diary was right in front of his eyes. Hermione_Granger had been urging him to report the robbery, but Harry_Potter didn’t like the idea. he’d have to tell a teacher all about the diary and how many people knew why Rubeus_Hagrid had been expelled fifty years ago? he didn’t want to be the one who brought it all up again. as he left the great hall with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to go and collect his quidditch things, another, very serious worry was added to Harry_Potter’s growing list. he had just set foot on the marble staircase when he heard it yet again: ‘kill this time … let me rip … tear …’ he shouted aloud and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger both jumped away from him in alarm. ‘the voice!’ said Harry_Potter, looking over his shoulder. ‘i just heard it again – didn’t you?’ Ronald_Weasley shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione_Granger, however, clapped a hand to her forehead. ‘Harry_Potter – i think i’ve just understood something! i’ve got to go to the library!’ and she sprinted away, up the stairs. ‘what does she understand?’ said Harry_Potter distractedly, still looking around, trying to tell where the voice had come from. ‘loads more than i do,’ said Ronald_Weasley shaking his head. ‘but why’s she got to go to the library?’ ‘because that’s what Hermione_Granger does,’ said Ronald_Weasley shrugging. ‘when in doubt, go to the library.’ Harry_Potter stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice again, but people were now emerging from the great hall behind him, talking loudly, exiting through the front doors on their way to the quidditch pitch. ‘you’d better get moving,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘it’s nearly eleven – the match.’ Harry_Potter raCedric_Diggory up to gryffindor tower, collected his nimbus two thousand and joined the large crowd swarming across the grounds, but his mind was still in the castle, along with the bodiless voice, and as he pulled on his scarlet robes in the changing room, his only comfort was that everyone was now outside to watch the game. the teams walked onto the pitch to tumultuous applause. Oliver_Wood took off for a warm-up flight around the goalposts, madam Rolanda_Hooch released the balls. the hufflepuffs, who played in canary yellow, were standing in a huddle, having a last-minute discussion of tactics. Harry_Potter was just mounting his broom when professor Minerva_McGonagall came half-marching, half-running across the pitch, carrying an enormous purple megaphone. Harry_Potter’s heart dropped like a stone. ‘this match has been cancelled,’ professor Minerva_McGonagall called through the megaphone, addressing the packed stadium. there were boos and shouts. Oliver_Wood, looking devastated, landed and ran towards professor Minerva_McGonagall without getting off his broomstick. ‘but professor!’ he shouted. ‘we’ve got to play … the cup … gryffindor …’ professor Minerva_McGonagall ignored him and continued to shout through her megaphone: ‘all students are to make their way back to the house common rooms, where their heads of houses will give them further information. as quickly as you can, please!’ then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned Harry_Potter over to her. ‘potter, i think you’d better come with me …’ wondering how she could possibly suspect him this time, Harry_Potter saw Ronald_Weasley detach himself from the complaining crowd; he came running up to them as they set off towards the castle. to Harry_Potter’s surprise, professor Minerva_McGonagall didn’t object. ‘yes, perhaps you’d better come too, weasley.’ some of the students swarming around them were grumbling about the match being cancelled, others looked worried. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley followed professor Minerva_McGonagall back into the school and up the marble staircase. but they weren’t taken to anybody’s office this time. ‘this will be a bit of a shock,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall in a surprisingly gentle voice as they approached the hospital wing. ‘there has been another attack … another double attack.’ Harry_Potter’s insides did a horrible somersault. professor Minerva_McGonagall pushed the door open and he and Ronald_Weasley entered. madam pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl with long curly hair. Harry_Potter recognised her as the ravenclaw they’d accidentally asked for directions to the slytherin common room. and on the bed next to her was – ‘Hermione_Granger!’ Ronald_Weasley groaned. Hermione_Granger lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy. ‘they were found near the library,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘i don’t suppose either of you can explain this? it was on the floor next to them …’ she was holding up a small, circular mirror. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley shook their heads, both staring at Hermione_Granger. ‘i will escort you back to gryffindor tower,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall heavily. ‘i need to address the students in any case.’ * ‘all students will return to their house common rooms by six o’clock in the evening. no student is to leave the dormitories after that time. you will be escorted to each lesson by a teacher. no student is to use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. all further quidditch training and matches are to be postponed. there will be no more evening activities.’ the gryffindors packed inside the common room listened to professor Minerva_McGonagall in silence. she rolled up the parchment from which she had been reading and said in a somewhat choked voice, ‘i need hardly add that i have rarely been so distressed. it is likely that the school will be closed unless the culprit behind these attacks is caught. i would urge anyone who thinks they might know anything about them to come forward.’ she climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait hole, and the gryffindors began talking immediately. ‘that’s two gryffindors down, not counting a gryffindor ghost, one ravenclaw and one hufflepuff,’ said the weasley twins’ friend Lee_Jordan, counting on his fingers. ‘haven’t any of the teachers notiCedric_Diggory that the slytherins are all safe? isn’t it obvious all this stuff’s coming from slytherin? the heir of slytherin, the monster of slytherin – why don’t they just chuck all the slytherins out?’ he roared, to nods and scattered applause. Percy_Weasley was sitting in a chair behind lee, but for once he didn’t seem keen to make his views heard. he was looking pale and stunned. ‘Percy_Weasley’s in shock,’ George_Weasley told Harry_Potter quietly. ‘that ravenclaw girl – Penelope_Clearwater – she’s a prefect. i don’t think he thought the monster would dare attack a prefect.’ but Harry_Potter was only half-listening. he didn’t seem to be able to get rid of the picture of Hermione_Granger, lying on the hospital bed as though carved out of stone. and if the culprit wasn’t caught soon, he was looking at a lifetime back with Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley. Tom_Riddle had turned Rubeus_Hagrid in because he was faCedric_Diggory with the prospect of a muggle orphanage if the school closed. Harry_Potter now knew exactly how he had felt. ‘what’re we going to do?’ said Ronald_Weasley quietly in Harry_Potter’s ear. ‘d’you think they suspect Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘we’ve got to go and talk to him,’ said Harry_Potter, making up his mind. ‘i can’t believe it’s him this time, but if he set the monster loose last time he’ll know how to get inside the chamber of secrets, and that’s a start.’ ‘but Minerva_McGonagall said we’ve got to stay in our tower unless we’re in class –’ ‘i think,’ said Harry_Potter, more quietly still, ‘it’s time to get my dad’s old cloak out again.’ * Harry_Potter had inherited just one thing from his father: a long and silvery invisibility cloak. it was their only chance of sneaking out of the school to visit Rubeus_Hagrid without anyone knowing about it. they went to bed at the usual time, waited until Neville_Longbottom, Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan had stopped discussing the chamber of secrets and finally fallen asleep, then got up, dressed again, and threw the cloak over themselves. the journey through the dark and deserted castle corridors wasn’t enjoyable. Harry_Potter, who had wandered the castle at night several times before, had never seen it so crowded after sunset. teachers, prefects and ghosts were marching the corridors in pairs, staring around for any unusual activity. their invisibility cloak didn’t stop them making any noise, and there was a particularly tense moment when Ronald_Weasley stubbed his toe only yards from the spot where snape was standing guard. thankfully, snape sneezed at almost exactly the moment Ronald_Weasley swore. it was with relief that they reached the oak front doors and eased them open. it was a clear, starry night. they hurried towards the lighted windows of Rubeus_Hagrid’s house, and pulled off the cloak only when they were right outside his front door. seconds after they had knocked, Rubeus_Hagrid flung it open. they found themselves face to face, with him aiming a crossbow at them, Fang the boarhound barking loudly behind him. ‘oh,’ he said, lowering the weapon and staring at them. ‘what’re you two doin’ here?’ ‘what’s that for?’ said Harry_Potter, pointing at the crossbow as they stepped inside. ‘nothin’ … nothin’,’ Rubeus_Hagrid muttered. ‘i’ve bin expectin’ … doesn’ matter … sit down … i’ll make tea …’ he hardly seemed to know what he was doing. he nearly extinguished the fire, spilling water from the kettle on it, and then smashed the teapot with a nervous jerk of his massive hand. ‘are you ok, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘did you hear about Hermione_Granger?’ ‘oh, i heard, all righ’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, a slight break in his voice. he kept glancing nervously at the windows. he poured them both large mugs of boiling water (he had forgotten to add tea bags) and was just putting a slab of fruitcake on a plate, when there was a loud knock on the door. Rubeus_Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley exchanged panic-stricken looks, then threw the invisibility cloak back over themselves and retreated into a corner. Rubeus_Hagrid checked that they were hidden, seized his crossbow and flung open his door once more. ‘good evening, Rubeus_Hagrid.’ it was Albus_Dumbledore. he entered, looking deadly serious, and was followed by a second, very odd-looking man. the stranger was a short, portly man with rumpled grey hair and an anxious expression. he was wearing a strange mixture of clothes: a pin-striped suit, a scarlet tie, a long black cloak and pointed purple boots. under his arm he carried a lime-green bowler. ‘that’s dad’s boss!’ Ronald_Weasley breathed. ‘Cornelius_Fudge, the minister of magic!’ Harry_Potter elbowed Ronald_Weasley hard to make him shut up. Rubeus_Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty. he dropped into one of his chairs and looked from Albus_Dumbledore to Cornelius_Fudge. ‘bad business, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said fudge, in rather clipped tones. ‘very bad business. had to come. four attacks on muggle-borns. things’ve gone far enough. ministry’s got to act.’ ‘i never,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking imploringly at Albus_Dumbledore, ‘you know i never, professor Albus_Dumbledore, sir …’ ‘i want it understood, Cornelius_Fudge, that Rubeus_Hagrid has my full confidence,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, frowning at fudge. ‘look, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said fudge, uncomfortably. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid’s record’s against him. ministry’s got to do something – the school governors have been in touch.’ ‘yet again, Cornelius_Fudge, i tell you that taking Rubeus_Hagrid away will not help in the slightest,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. his blue eyes were full of a fire Harry_Potter had never seen before. ‘look at it from my point of view,’ said fudge, fidgeting with his bowler. ‘i’m under a lot of pressure. got to be seen to be doing something. if it turns out it wasn’t Rubeus_Hagrid, he’ll be back and no more said. but i’ve got to take him. got to. wouldn’t be doing my duty –’ ‘take me?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, who was trembling. ‘take me where?’ ‘for a short stretch only,’ said fudge, not meeting Rubeus_Hagrid’s eyes. ‘not a punishment, Rubeus_Hagrid, more a precaution. if someone else is caught, you’ll be let out with a full apology …’ ‘not azkaban?’ croaked Rubeus_Hagrid. before fudge could answer, there was another loud rap on the door. Albus_Dumbledore answered it. it was Harry_Potter’s turn for an elbow in the ribs: he’d let out an audible gasp. mr Lucius_Malfoy strode into Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut, swathed in a long black travelling cloak, smiling a cold and satisfied smile. Fang started to growl. ‘already here, fudge,’ he said approvingly. ‘good, good …’ ‘what’re you doin’ here?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid furiously. ‘get outta my house!’ ‘my dear man, please believe me, i have no pleasure at all in being inside your – er – d’you call this a house?’ said Lucius_Malfoy, sneering as he looked around the small cabin. ‘i simply called at the school and was told that the headmaster was here.’ ‘and what exactly did you want with me, Lucius_Malfoy?’ said Albus_Dumbledore. he spoke politely, but the fire was still blazing in his blue eyes. ‘dreadful thing, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said mr malfoy lazily, taking out a long roll of parchment, ‘but the governors feel it’s time for you to step aside. this is an order of suspension – you’ll find all twelve signatures on it. i’m afraid we feel you’re losing your touch. how many attacks have there been now? two more this afternoon, wasn’t it? at this rate, there’ll be no muggle-borns left at hogwarts, and we all know what an awful loss that would be to the school.’ ‘oh, now, see here, Lucius_Malfoy,’ said fudge, looking alarmed, ‘Albus_Dumbledore suspended … no, no … last thing we want just now …’ ‘the appointment – or suspension – of the headmaster is a matter for the governors, fudge,’ said mr malfoy smoothly. ‘and as Albus_Dumbledore has failed to stop these attacks …’ ‘now look, Lucius_Malfoy, if Albus_Dumbledore can’t stop them –’ said fudge, whose upper lip was sweating now, ‘i mean to say, who can?’ ‘that remains to be seen,’ said mr malfoy, with a nasty smile. ‘but as all twelve of us have voted …’ Rubeus_Hagrid leapt to his feet, his shaggy black head grazing the ceiling. ‘an’ how many did yeh have ter threaten an’ blackmail before they agreed, malfoy, eh?’ he roared. ‘dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead you into trouble one of these days, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said mr malfoy. ‘i would advise you not to shout at the azkaban guards like that. they won’t like it at all.’ ‘yeh can’ take Albus_Dumbledore!’ yelled Rubeus_Hagrid, making Fang the boarhound cower and whimper in his basket. ‘take him away, an’ the muggle-borns won’ stand a chance! there’ll be killin’s next!’ ‘calm yourself, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Albus_Dumbledore sharply. he looked at Lucius_Malfoy. ‘if the governors want my removal, Lucius_Malfoy, i shall of course step aside.’ ‘but –’ stuttered fudge. ‘no!’ growled Rubeus_Hagrid. Albus_Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off Lucius_Malfoy’s cold grey ones. ‘however,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, speaking very slowly and clearly, so that none of them could miss a word, ‘you will find that i will only truly have left this school when none here are loyal to me. you will also find that help will always be given at hogwarts to those who ask for it.’ for a second, Harry_Potter was almost sure Albus_Dumbledore’s eyes flickered towards the corner where he and Ronald_Weasley stood hidden. ‘admirable sentiments,’ said malfoy, bowing. ‘we shall all miss your – er – highly individual way of running things, Albus_Dumbledore, and only Hope_Howell that your successor will manage to prevent any – ah – “killin’s”.’ he strode to the cabin door, opened it and bowed Albus_Dumbledore out. fudge, fiddling with his bowler, waited for Rubeus_Hagrid to go ahead of him, but Rubeus_Hagrid stood his ground, took a deep breath and said carefully, ‘if anyone wanted ter find out some stuff, all they’d have ter do would be ter follow the spiders. that’d lead ’em right! that’s all i’m sayin’.’ fudge stared at him in amazement. ‘all right, i’m comin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, pulling on his moleskin overcoat. but as he was about to follow fudge through the door, he stopped again and said loudly, ‘an’ someone’ll need ter feed Fang while i’m away.’ the door banged shut and Ronald_Weasley pulled the invisibility cloak off. ‘we’re in trouble now,’ he said hoarsely. ‘no Albus_Dumbledore. they might as well close the school tonight. there’ll be an attack a day with him gone.’ Fang started howling, scratching at the closed door. 