— chapter two — Dobby’s warning Harry_Potter managed not to shout out, but it was a close thing. the little creature on the bed had large, bat-like ears and bulging green eyes the size of tennis balls. Harry_Potter knew inStanley_Shunpiketly that this was what had been watching him out of the garden hedge that morning. as they stared at each other, Harry_Potter heard Dudley_Dursley’s voice from the hall. ‘may i take your coats, mr and mrs Mason?’ the creature slipped off the bed and bowed so low that the end of its long thin nose touched the carpet. Harry_Potter noticed that it was wearing what looked like an old pillowcase, with rips for arm and leg holes. ‘er – hello,’ said Harry_Potter nervously. ‘Harry_Potter potter!’ said the creature, in a high-pitched voice Harry_Potter was sure would carry down the stairs. ‘so long has Dobby wanted to meet you, sir … such an honour it is …’ ‘th-thank you,’ said Harry_Potter, edging along the wall and sinking into his desk chair, next to Hedwig, who was asleep in her large cage. he wanted to ask, ‘what are you?’ but thought it would sound too rude, so instead he said, ‘who are you?’ ‘Dobby, sir. just Dobby. Dobby the house-elf,’ said the creature. ‘oh – really?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘er – i don’t want to be rude or anything, but – this isn’t a great time for me to have a house-elf in my bedroom.’ aunt Petunia_Dursley’s high, false laugh sounded from the living room. theWinkyhung his head. ‘not that i’m not pleased to meet you,’ said Harry_Potter quickly, ‘but, er, is there any particular reason you’re here?’ ‘oh, yes, sir,’ said Dobby earnestly. ‘Dobby has come to tell you, sir … it is difficult, sir … Dobby wonders where to begin …’ ‘sit down,’ said Harry_Potter politely, pointing at the bed. to his horror, theWinkyburst into tears – very noisy tears. ‘s-sit down!’ he wailed. ‘never … never ever …’ Harry_Potter thought he heard the voices downstairs falter.   ‘i’m sorry,’ he whispered, ‘i didn’t mean to offend you or anything.’ ‘offend Dobby!’ choked the elf. ‘Dobby has never been asked to sit down by a wizard – like an equal –’ Harry_Potter, trying to say ‘shh!’ and look comforting at the same time, ushered Dobby back onto the bed where he sat hiccoughing, looking like a large and very ugly doll. at last he managed to control himself, and sat with his great eyes fixed on Harry_Potter in an expression of watery aNymphadora_Tonkstion. ‘you can’t have met many decent wizards,’ said Harry_Potter, trying to cheer him up. Dobby shook his head. then, without warning, he leapt up and started banging his head furiously on the window, shouting, ‘bad Dobby! bad Dobby!’ ‘don’t – what are you doing?’ Harry_Potter hissed, springing up and pulling Dobby back onto the bed. Hedwig had woken up with a particularly loud screech and was beating her wings wildly against the bars of her cage. ‘Dobby had to punish himself, sir,’ said the elf, who had gone slightly cross-eyed. ‘Dobby almost spoke ill of his family, sir …’ ‘your family?’ ‘the wizard family Dobby serves, sir … Dobby is a house-elf – bound to serve one house and one family for ever …’ ‘do they know you’re here?’ asked Harry_Potter curiously. Dobby shuddered. ‘oh no, sir, no … Dobby will have to punish himself most grievously for coming to see you, sir. Dobby will have to shut his ears in the oven door for this. if they ever knew, sir –’ ‘but won’t they notice if you shut your ears in the oven door?’ ‘Dobby doubts it, sir. Dobby is always having to punish himself for something, sir. they lets Dobby get on with it, sir. sometimes they reminds me to do extra punishments …’ ‘but why don’t you leave? escape?’ ‘a house-elf must be set free, sir. and the family will never set Dobby free … Dobby will serve the family until he dies, sir …’ Harry_Potter stared. ‘and i thought i was hard-done-by staying here for another four weeks,’ he said. ‘this makes the dursleys sound almost human. can’t anyone help you? can’t i?’ almost at once, Harry_Potter wished he hadn’t spoken. Dobby dissolved again into wails of gratitude. ‘please,’ Harry_Potter whispered frantically, ‘please be quiet. if the dursleys hear anything, if they know you’re here …’ ‘Harry_Potter potter asks if he can help Dobby … Dobby has heard of your greatness, sir, but of your goodness, Dobby never knew …’ Harry_Potter, who was feeling distinctly hot in the face, said, ‘whatever you’ve heard about my greatness is a load of rubbish. i’m not even top of my year at hogwarts, that’s Hermione_Granger, she –’ but he stopped quickly, because thinking about Hermione_Granger was painful. ‘Harry_Potter potter is humble and modest,’ said Dobby reverently, his orb-like eyes aglow. ‘Harry_Potter potter speaks not of his triumph over he who must not be named.’ ‘voldemort?’ said Harry_Potter. Dobby clapped his hands over his bat ears and moaned, ‘ah, speak not the name, sir! speak not the name!’ ‘sorry,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘i know lots of people don’t like it – my friendRonald_Weasley…’ he stopped again. thinking aboutRonald_Weasleywas painful, too. Dobby leaned towards Harry_Potter, his eyes wide as headlamps. ‘Dobby heard tell,’ he said hoarsely, ‘that Harry_Potter potter met the dark lord for a second time, just weeks ago … that Harry_Potter potter escaped yet again.’ Harry_Potter nodded and Dobby’s eyes suddenly shone with tears. ‘ah, sir,’ he gasped, dabbing his face with a corner of the grubby pillowcase he was wearing. ‘Harry_Potter potter is valiant and bold! he has braved so many dangers already! but Dobby has come to protect Harry_Potter potter, to warn him, even if he does have to shut his ears in the oven door later … Harry_Potter potter must not go back to hogwarts.’ there was a silence broken only by the chink of knives and forks from downstairs and the diStanley_Shunpiket rumble of uncle Vernon_Dursley’s voice. ‘w-what?’ Harry_Potter stammered. ‘but i’ve got to go back – term starts on september the first. it’s all that’s keeping me going. you don’t know what it’s like here. i don’t belong here. i belong in your world – at hogwarts.’ ‘no, no, no,’ squeaked Dobby, shaking his head so hard his ears flapped. ‘Harry_Potter potter must stay where he is safe. he is too great, too good, to lose. if Harry_Potter potter goes back to hogwarts, he will be in mortal danger.’ ‘why?’ said Harry_Potter in surprise. ‘there is a plot, Harry_Potter potter. a plot to make most terrible things happen at hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry this year,’ whispered Dobby, suddenly trembling all over. ‘Dobby has known it for months, sir. Harry_Potter potter must not put himself in peril. he is too important, sir!’ ‘what terrible things?’ said Harry_Potter at once. ‘who’s plotting them?’ Dobby made a funny choking noise and then banged his head madly against the wall. ‘all right!’ cried Harry_Potter, grabbing the elf’s arm to stop him. ‘you can’t say, i underStanley_Shunpiked. but why are you warning me?’ a sudden, unpleasant thought struck him. ‘hang on – this hasn’t got anything to do with vol – sorry – with you know who, has it? you could just shake or nod,’ he added hastily, as Dobby’s head tilted worryingly close to the wall again. slowly, Dobby shook his head. ‘not – not he who must not be named, sir.’ but Dobby’s eyes were wide and he seemed to be trying to give Harry_Potter a hint. Harry_Potter, however, was completely at sea. ‘he hasn’t got a brother, has he?’ Dobby shook his head, his eyes wider than ever. ‘well then, i can’t think who else would have a chance of making horrible things happen at hogwarts,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i mean, there’s Albus_Dumbledore, for one thing – you know who Albus_Dumbledore is, don’t you?’ Dobby bowed his head. ‘Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore is the greatest headmaster hogwarts has ever had. Dobby knows it, sir. Dobby has heard Albus_Dumbledore’s powers rival those of he who must not be named at the height of his strength. but sir,’ Dobby’s voice dropped to an urgent whisper, ‘there are powers Albus_Dumbledore doesn’t … powers no decent wizard …’ and before Harry_Potter could stop him, Dobby bounded off the bed, seized Harry_Potter’s desk lamp and started beating himself around the head with ear- splitting yelps. a sudden silence fell downstairs. two seconds later Harry_Potter, heart thudding madly, heard uncle Vernon_Dursley coming into the hall, calling, ‘Dudley_Dursley must have left his television on again, the little tyke!’ ‘quick! in the wardrobe!’ hissed Harry_Potter, stuffing Dobby in, shutting the door and flinging himself onto the bed just as the door handle turned. ‘what – the – devil – are – you – doing?’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley through gritted teeth, his face horribly close to Harry_Potter’s. ‘you’ve just ruined the punchline of my japanese-golfer joke … one more sound and you’ll wish you’d never been born, boy!’ he stomped flat-footed from the room. shaking, Harry_Potter let Dobby out of the wardrobe. ‘see what it’s like here?’ he said. ‘see why i’ve got to go back to hogwarts? it’s the only place i’ve got – well, i think i’ve got friends.’ ‘friends who don’t even write to Harry_Potter potter?’ said Dobby slyly. ‘i expect they’ve just been – hang on,’ said Harry_Potter, frowning. ‘how do you know my friends haven’t been writing to me?’ Dobby shuffled his feet. ‘Harry_Potter potter mustn’t be angry with Dobby – Dobby did it for the best …’ ‘have you been stopping my letters?’ ‘Dobby has them here, sir,’ said the elf. stepping nimbly out of Harry_Potter’s reach, he pulled a thick wad of envelopes from the inside of the pillowcase he was wearing. Harry_Potter could make out Hermione_Granger’s neat writing, ron’s untidy scrawl and even a scribble that looked as though it was from the hogwarts gamekeeper, Rubeus_Hagrid. Dobby blinked anxiously up at Harry_Potter. ‘Harry_Potter potter mustn’t be angry … Dobby Hope_Howelld … if Harry_Potter potter thought his friends had forgotten him … Harry_Potter potter might not want to go back to school, sir …’ Harry_Potter wasn’t listening. he made a grab for the letters, but Dobby jumped out of reach. ‘Harry_Potter potter will have them, sir, if he gives Dobby his word that he will not return to hogwarts. ah, sir, this is a danger you must not face! say you won’t go back, sir!’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter angrily. ‘give me my friends’ letters!’ ‘then Harry_Potter potter leaves Dobby no choice,’ said theWinkysadly. before Harry_Potter could move, Dobby had darted to the bedroom door, pulled it open – and sprinted down the stairs. mouth dry, stomach lurching, Harry_Potter sprang after him, trying not to make a sound. he jumped the last six stairs, landing cat-like on the hall carpet, looking around for Dobby. from the dining room he heard uncle Vernon_Dursley saying, ‘… tell Petunia_Dursley that very funny story about those amEric_Munchan plumbers, mr Mason, she’s been dying to hear …’ Harry_Potter ran up the hall into the kitchen and felt his stomach disappear. aunt Petunia_Dursley’s masterpiece of a pudding, the mountain of cream and sugared violets, was floating up near the ceiling. on top of a cupboard in the corner crouched Dobby. ‘no,’ croaked Harry_Potter. ‘please … they’ll kill me …’ ‘Harry_Potter potter must say he’s not going back to school –’ ‘Dobby … please …’ ‘say it, sir …’ ‘i can’t!’ Dobby gave him a tragic look. ‘then Dobby must do it, sir, for Harry_Potter potter’s own good.’ the pudding fell to the floor with a heart-stopping crash. cream splattered the windows and walls as the dish shattered. with a crack like a whip, Dobby vanished. there were screams from the dining room and uncle Vernon_Dursley burst into the kitchen to find Harry_Potter, rigid with shock, covered from head to foot in aunt Petunia_Dursley’s pudding. at first, it looked as though uncle Vernon_Dursley would manage to gloss the whole thing over (‘just our nephew – very disturbed – meeting strangers upsets him, so we kept him upstairs …’) he shooed the shocked Masons back into the dining room, promised Harry_Potter he would flay him to within an inch of his life when the Masons had left, and handed him a mop. aunt Petunia_Dursley dug some ice-cream out of the freezer and Harry_Potter, still shaking, started scrubbing the kitchen clean. uncle Vernon_Dursley might still have been able to make his deal – if it hadn’t been for the owl. aunt Petunia_Dursley was just handing round a box of after-dinner mints when a huge barn owl swooped through the dining room window, dropped a letter on mrs Mason’s head and swooped out again. mrs Mason screamed like a banshee and ran from the house, shouting about Luna_Lovegoodtics. mr Mason stayed just long enough to tell the dursleys that his wife was morTall_gobliny afraid of birds of all shapes and sizes, and to ask whether this was their idea of a joke. Harry_Potter stood in the kitchen, clutching the mop for support as uncle Vernon_Dursley advanced on him, a demonic glint in his tiny eyes. ‘read it!’ he hissed evilly, brandishing the letter the owl had delivered. ‘go on – read it!’ Harry_Potter took it. it did not contain birthday greetings. dear mr potter, we have received intelligence that a hover charm was used at your  place of residence this evening at twelve minutes past nine. as you know, underage wizards are not permitted to perform spells outside school, and further spellwork on your part may lead to expulsion from said school (decree for the reasonable restriction of underage sorcery, 1875, paragraph c). we would also ask you to remember that any Magic_goblinal activity which risks notice by members of the non-Magic_goblinal community (muggles) is a serious offence, under section 13 of the international confederation of warlocks’ statute of secrecy. enjoy your holidays! yours sincerely, Mafalda_Hopkirk hopkirk improper use of Magic_goblin office ministry of Magic_goblin Harry_Potter looked up from the letter and gulped. ‘you didn’t tell us you weren’t allowed to use Magic_goblin outside school,’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley, a mad gleam dancing in his eyes. ‘forgot to mention it … slipped your mind, i dare say …’ he was bearing down on Harry_Potter like a great bulldog, all his teeth bared. ‘well, i’ve got news for you, boy … i’m locking you up … you’re never going back to that school … never … and if you try and Magic_goblin yourself out – they’ll expel you!’ and laughing like a maniac, he dragged Harry_Potter back upstairs. uncle Vernon_Dursley was as bad as his word. the following morning, he paid a man to fit bars on Harry_Potter’s window. he himself fitted the cat-flap in the bedroom door, so that small amounts of food could be pushed inside three times a day. they let Harry_Potter out to use the bathroom morning and evening. otherwise, he was locked in his room around the clock. * three days later, the dursleys were showing no sign of relenting and Harry_Potter couldn’t see any way out of his situation. he lay on his bed watching the sun sinking behind the bars on the window and wondered miserably what was going to happen to him. what was the good of Magic_goblinking himself out of his room if hogwarts would expel him for doing it? yet life at privet drive had reached an all-time low. now the dursleys knew they weren’t going to wake up as fruitbats, he  had lost his only weapon. Dobby might have saved Harry_Potter from horrible happenings at hogwarts, but the way things were going, he’d probably starve to death anyway. the cat-flap rattled and aunt Petunia_Dursley’s hand appeared, pushing a bowl of tinned soup into the room. Harry_Potter, whose insides were aching with hunger, jumped off his bed and seized it. the soup was stone cold, but he drank half of it in one gulp. then he crossed the room to Hedwig’s cage and tipped the soggy vegetables at the bottom of the bowl into her empty food tray. she ruffled her feathers and gave him a look of deep disgust. ‘it’s no good turning your beak up at it, that’s all we’ve got,’ said Harry_Potter grimly. he put the empty bowl back on the floor next to the cat-flap and lay back down on the bed, somehow even hungrier than he had been before the soup. supposing he was still alive in another four weeks, what would happen if he didn’t turn up at hogwarts? would someone be sent to see why he hadn’t come back? would they be able to make the dursleys let him go? the room was growing dark. exhausted, stomach rumbling, mind spinning over the same unanswerable questions, Harry_Potter fell into an uneasy sleep. he dreamed that he was on show in a zoo, with a card reading ‘underage wizard’ attached to his cage. people goggled through the bars at him as he lay, starving and weak, on a bed of straw. he saw Dobby’s face in the crowd and shouted out, asking for help, but Dobby called, ‘Harry_Potter potter is safe there, sir!’ and vanished. then the dursleys appeared and Dudley_Dursley rattled the bars of the cage, laughing at him. ‘stop it,’ Harry_Potter muttered, as the rattling pounded in his sore head. ‘leave me alone … cut it out … i’m trying to sleep …’ he opened his eyes. moonlight was shining through the bars on the window. and someone was goggling through the bars at him: a freckle-faced, red-haired, long-nosed someone.Ronald_Weasleyweasley was outside Harry_Potter’s window. 