— chapter nine — the writing on the wall ‘what’s going on here? what’s going on?’ attracted no doubt by malfoy’s shout, Argus_Filch came shouldering his way through the crowd. then he saw Mrs_Norris and fell back, clutching his face in horror. ‘my cat! my cat! what’s happened to Mrs_Norris?’ he shrieked. and his popping eyes fell on Harry_Potter. ‘you!’ he screeched, ‘you! you’ve murdered my cat! you’ve killed her! i’ll kill you! i’ll –’ ‘Argus_Filch!’ Albus_Dumbledore had arrived on the scene, followed by a number of other teachers. in seconds, he had swept past Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger and detached Mrs_Norris from the torch bracket. ‘come with me, Argus_Filch,’ he said to filch. ‘you too, mr potter, Arthur_Weasley, miss granger.’ lockhart stepped forward eagerly. ‘my office is nearest, headmaster – just upstairs – please feel free –’ ‘thank you, Gilderoy_Lockhart,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. the silent crowd parted to let them pass. lockhart, looking excited and important, hurried after Albus_Dumbledore; so did professors Minerva_McGonagall and snape. as they entered lockhart’s darkened office there was a flurry of movement across the walls; Harry_Potter saw several of the lockharts in the pictures dodging out of sight, their hair in rollers. the real lockhart lit the candles on his desk and stood back. Albus_Dumbledore laid Mrs_Norris on the polished surface and began to examine her. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged tense looks and sank into chairs outside the pool of candlelight, watching. the tip of Albus_Dumbledore’s long, crooked nose was barely an inch from Mrs_Norris’s fur. he was looking at her closely through his half-moon spectacles, his long fingers gently prodding and poking. professor Minerva_McGonagall was bent almost as close, her eyes narrowed. snape loomed behind them, half in shadow, wearing a most peculiar expression: it was as though he was trying   hard not to smile. and lockhart was hovering around all of them, making suggestions. ‘it was definitely a curse that killed her – probably the transmogrifian torture. i’ve seen it used many times, so unlucky i wasn’t there, i know the very counter-curse that would have saved her …’ lockhart’s comments were punctuated by filch’s dry, racking sobs. he was slumped in a chair by the desk, unable to look at Mrs_Norris, his face in his hands. much as he detested filch, Harry_Potter couldn’t help feeling a bit sorry for him, though not nearly as sorry as he felt for himself. if Albus_Dumbledore believed filch, he would be expelled for sure. Albus_Dumbledore was now muttering strange words under his breath and tapping Mrs_Norris with his wand, but nothing happened: she continued to look as though she had been recently stuffed. ‘… i remember something very similar happening in ouagadougou,’ said lockhart, ‘a series of attacks, the full story’s in my autobiography. i was able to provide the townsfolk with various amulets which cleared the matter up at once …’ the photographs of lockhart on the walls were all nodding in agreement as he talked. one of them had forgotten to remove his hairnet. at last Albus_Dumbledore straightened up. ‘she’s not dead, Argus_Filch,’ he said softly. lockhart stopped abruptly in the middle of counting the number of murders he had prevented. ‘not dead?’ choked filch, looking through his fingers at Mrs_Norris. ‘but why’s she all – all stiff and frozen?’ ‘she has been petrified,’ said Albus_Dumbledore (‘ah! i thought so!’ said lockhart). ‘but how, i cannot say …’ ‘ask him!’ shrieked filch, turning his blotched and tear-stained face to Harry_Potter. ‘no second-year could have done this,’ said Albus_Dumbledore firmly. ‘it would take dark magic of the most advanced –’ ‘he did it, he did it!’ filch spat, his pouchy face purpling. ‘you saw what he wrote on the wall! he found – in my office – he knows i’m a – i’m a –’ filch’s face worked horribly. ‘he knows i’m a squib!’ he finished. ‘i never touched Mrs_Norris!’ Harry_Potter said loudly, uncomfortably aware of everyone looking at him, including all the lockharts on the walls. ‘and i don’t even know what a squib is.’ ‘rubbish!’ snarled filch. ‘he saw my kwikspell letter!’ ‘if i might speak, headmaster,’ said snape from the shadows, and Harry_Potter’s sense of foreboding increased; he was sure nothing snape had to say was going to do him any good. ‘potter and his friends may have simply been in the wrong place at the wrong time,’ he said, a slight sneer curling his mouth as though he doubted it, ‘but we do have a set of suspicious circumstances here. why were they in the upstairs corridor at all? why weren’t they at the hallowe’en feast?’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger all launched into an explanation about the deathday party, ‘… there were hundreds of ghosts, they’ll tell you we were there –’ ‘but why not join the feast afterwards?’ said snape, his black eyes glittering in the candlelight. ‘why go up to that corridor?’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked at Harry_Potter. ‘because – because –’ Harry_Potter said, his heart thumping very fast; something told him it would sound very far-fetched if he told them he had been led there by a bodiless voice no one but he could hear, ‘because we were tired and wanted to go to bed,’ he said. ‘without any supper?’ said snape, a triumphant smile flickering across his gaunt face. ‘i didn’t think ghosts provided food fit for living people at their parties.’ ‘we weren’t hungry,’ said Ronald_Weasley loudly, as his stomach gave a huge rumble. snape’s nasty smile widened. ‘i suggest, headmaster, that potter is not being entirely truthful,’ he said. ‘it might be a good idea if he were deprived of certain privileges until he is ready to tell us the whole story. i personally feel he should be taken off the gryffindor quidditch team until he is ready to be honest.’ ‘really, Severus_Snape,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall sharply, ‘i see no reason to stop the boy playing quidditch. this cat wasn’t hit over the head with a broomstick. there is no evidence at all that potter has done anything wrong.’ Albus_Dumbledore was giving Harry_Potter a searching look. his twinkling light-blue gaze made Harry_Potter feel as though he was being x-rayed. ‘innocent until proven guilty, Severus_Snape,’ he said firmly. snape looked furious. so did filch. ‘my cat has been petrified!’ he shrieked, his eyes popping. ‘i want to see some punishment!’ ‘we will be able to cure her, Argus_Filch,’ said Albus_Dumbledore patiently. ‘professor sprout recently managed to procure some mandrakes. as soon as they have reached their full size, i will have a potion made which will revive Mrs_Norris.’ ‘i’ll make it,’ lockhart butted in. ‘i must have done it a hundred times, i could whip up a mandrake restorative draught in my sleep –’ ‘excuse me,’ said snape icily, ‘but i believe i am the potions master at this school.’ there was a very awkward pause. ‘you may go,’ Albus_Dumbledore said to Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. they went, as quickly as they could without actually running. when they were a floor up from lockhart’s office, they turned into an empty classroom and closed the door quietly behind them. Harry_Potter squinted at his friends’ darkened faces. ‘d’you think i should have told them about that voice i heard?’ ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley without hesitation. ‘hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the wizarding world.’ something in ron’s voice made Harry_Potter ask, ‘you do believe me, don’t you?’ ‘course i do,’ said Ronald_Weasley quickly. ‘but – you must admit it’s weird …’ ‘i know it’s weird,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘the whole thing’s weird. what was that writing on the wall about? the chamber has been opened … what’s that supposed to mean?’ ‘you know, it rings a sort of bell,’ said Ronald_Weasley slowly. ‘i think someone told me a story about a secret chamber at hogwarts once … might’ve been William_Weasley …’ ‘and what on earth’s a squib?’ said Harry_Potter. to his surprise, Ronald_Weasley stifled a snigger. ‘well – it’s not funny really – but as it’s filch …’ he said. ‘a squib is someone who was born into a wizarding family but hasn’t got any magic powers. kind of the opposite of muggle-born wizards, but squibs are quite unusual. if filch’s trying to learn magic from a kwikspell course, i reckon he must be a squib. it would explain a lot. like why he hates students so much.’ Ronald_Weasley gave a satisfied smile. ‘he’s bitter.’ a clock chimed somewhere. ‘midnight,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we’d better get to bed before snape comes along and tries to frame us for something else.’ * for a few days, the school could talk of little but the attack on Mrs_Norris. filch kept it fresh in everyone’s minds by pacing the spot where she had been attacked, as though he thought the attacker might come back. Harry_Potter had seen him scrubbing the message on the wall with ‘mrs skower’s all-purpose magical mess remover’, but to no effect; the words still gleamed as brightly as ever on the stone. when filch wasn’t guarding the scene of the crime, he was skulking red-eyed through the corridors, lunging out at unsuspecting students and trying to put them in detention for things like ‘breathing loudly’ and ‘looking happy’. Ginevra_Weasley weasley seemed very disturbed by Mrs_Norris’s fate. according to Ronald_Weasley she was a great cat-lover. ‘but you hadn’t really got to know Mrs_Norris,’ Ronald_Weasley told her bracingly. ‘honestly, we’re much better off without her.’ Ginevra_Weasley’s lip trembled. ‘stuff like this doesn’t often happen at hogwarts,’ Ronald_Weasley assured her. ‘they’ll catch the nutter who did it and have him out of here in no time. i just Hope_Howell he’s got time to petrify filch before he’s expelled. i’m only joking –’ Ronald_Weasley added hastily, as Ginevra_Weasley blanched. the attack had also had an effect on Hermione_Granger. it was quite usual for Hermione_Granger to spend a lot of time reading, but she was now doing almost nothing else. nor could Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley get much response from her when they asked what she was up to, and not until the following wednesday did they find out. Harry_Potter had been held back in potions, where snape had made him stay behind to scrape tubeworms off the desks. after a hurried lunch, he went upstairs to meet Ronald_Weasley in the library, and saw Justin_Finch-Fletchley, the hufflepuff boy from herbology, coming towards him. Harry_Potter had just opened his mouth to say hello when Justin_Finch-Fletchley caught sight of him, turned abruptly and sped off in the opposite direction. Harry_Potter found Ronald_Weasley at the back of the library, measuring his history of magic homework. professor binns had asked for a three-foot long composition on ‘the medieval assembly of european wizards’. ‘i don’t believe it, i’m still eight inches short …’ said Ronald_Weasley furiously, letting go of his parchment, which sprang back into a roll, ‘and Hermione_Granger’s done four feet seven inches and her writing’s tiny.’ ‘where is she?’ asked Harry_Potter, grabbing the tape measure and unrolling his own homework. ‘somewhere over there,’ said Ronald_Weasley pointing along the shelves, ‘looking for another book. i think she’s trying to read the whole library before christmas.’ Harry_Potter told Ronald_Weasley about Justin_Finch-Fletchley running away from him. ‘dunno why you care, i thought he was a bit of an idiot,’ said Ronald_Weasley scribbling away, making his writing as large as possible. ‘all that rubbish about lockhart being so great –’ Hermione_Granger emerged from between the bookshelves. she looked irRita_Skeeterble and at last seemed ready to talk to them. ‘all the copies of hogwarts: a history have been taken out,’ she said, sitting down next to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ‘and there’s a two-week waiting list. i wish i hadn’t left my copy at home, but i couldn’t fit it in my trunk with all the lockhart books.’ ‘why do you want it?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘the same reason everyone else wants it,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘to read up on the legend of the chamber of secrets.’ ‘what’s that?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘that’s just it. i can’t remember,’ said Hermione_Granger, biting her lip. ‘and i can’t find the story anywhere else –’ ‘Hermione_Granger, let me read your composition,’ said Ronald_Weasley desperately, checking his watch. ‘no, i won’t,’ said Hermione_Granger, suddenly severe. ‘you’ve had ten days to finish it.’ ‘i only need another two inches, go on …’ the bell rang. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger led the way to history of magic, bickering. history of magic was the dullest subject on their timetable. professor binns, who taught it, was their only ghost teacher, and the most exciting thing that ever happened in his classes was his entering the room through the blackboard. ancient and shrivelled, many people said he hadn’t noticed he was dead. he had simply got up to teach one day and left his body behind him in an armchair in front of the staff-room fire; his routine had not varied in the slightest since. today was as boring as ever. professor binns opened his notes and began to read in a flat drone like an old vacuum cleaner until nearly everyone in the class was in a deep stupor, occasionally coming round long enough to copy down a name or date, then falling asleep again. he had been speaking for half an hour when something happened that had never happened before. Hermione_Granger put up her hand. professor binns, glancing up in the middle of a deadly dull lecture on the international warlock convention of 1289, looked amazed. ‘miss – er –?’ ‘granger, professor. i was wondering if you could tell us anything about the chamber of secrets,’ said Hermione_Granger in a clear voice. Dean_Thomas, who had been sitting with his mouth hanging open, gazing out of the window, jerked out of his trance; Lavender_Brown’s head came up off her arms and Neville_Longbottom’s elbow slipped off his desk. professor binns blinked. ‘my subject is history of magic,’ he said in his dry, wheezy voice. ‘i deal with facts, miss granger, not myths and legends.’ he cleared his throat with a small noise like chalk snapping and continued, ‘in september of that year, a sub-committee of sardinian sorcerers –’ he stuttered to a halt. Hermione_Granger’s hand was waving in the air again. ‘miss grant?’ ‘please, sir, don’t legends always have a basis in fact?’ professor binns was looking at her in such amazement, Harry_Potter was sure no student had ever interrupted him before, alive or dead. ‘well,’ said professor binns slowly, ‘yes, one could argue that, i suppose.’ he peered at Hermione_Granger as though he had never seen a student properly before. ‘however, the legend of which you speak is such a very sensational, even ludicrous tale …’ but the whole class was now hanging on professor binns’s every word. he looked dimly at them all, every face turned to his. Harry_Potter could tell he was completely thrown by such an unusual show of interest. ‘oh, very well,’ he said slowly. ‘let me see … the chamber of secrets … ‘you all know, of course, that hogwarts was founded over a thousand years ago – the precise date is uncertain – by the four greatest witches and wizards of the age. the four school houses are named after them: godric gryffindor, helga hufflepuff, rOwen_Cauldwella ravenclaw and Salazar_Slytherin. they built this castle together, far from prying muggle eyes, for it was an age when magic was feared by common people, and witches and wizards suffered much persecution.’ he paused, gazed blearily around the room, and continued, ‘for a few years, the founders worked in harmony together, seeking out youngsters who showed signs of magic and bringing them to the castle to be educated. but then disagreements sprang up between them. a rift began to grow between slytherin and the others. slytherin wished to be more selective about the students admitted to hogwarts. he believed that magical learning should be kept within all-magic families. he disliked taking students of muggle parentage, believing them to be untrustworthy. after a while, there was a serious argument on the subject between slytherin and gryffindor, and slytherin left the school.’ professor binns paused again, pursing his lips, looking like a wrinkled old tortoise. ‘reliable historical sources tell us this much,’ he said, ‘but these honest facts have been obscured by the fanciful legend of the chamber of secrets. the story goes that slytherin had built a hidden chamber in the castle, of which the other founders knew nothing. ‘slytherin, according to the legend, sealed the chamber of secrets so that none would be able to open it until his own true heir arrived at the school. the heir alone would be able to unseal the chamber of secrets, unleash the horror within, and use it to purge the school of all who were unworthy to study magic.’ there was silence as he finished telling the story, but it wasn’t the usual, sleepy silence that filled professor binns’s classes. there was unease in the air as everyone continued to watch him, hoping for more. professor binns looked faintly annoyed. ‘the whole thing is arrant nonsense, of course,’ he said. ‘naturally, the school has been searched for evidence of such a chamber, many times, by the most learned witches and wizards. it does not exist. a tale told to frighten the gullible.’ Hermione_Granger’s hand was back in the air. ‘sir – what exactly do you mean by the ‘horror within’ the chamber?’ ‘that is believed to be some sort of monster, which the heir of slytherin alone can control,’ said professor binns in his dry, reedy voice. the class exchanged nervous looks. ‘i tell you, the thing does not exist,’ said professor binns, shuffling his notes. ‘there is no chamber and no monster.’ ‘but, sir,’ said Seamus_Finnigan, ‘if the chamber can only be opened by slytherin’s true heir, no one else would be able to find it, would they?’ ‘nonsense, o’flaherty,’ said professor binns in an aggravated tone. ‘if a long succession of hogwarts headmasters and headmistresses haven’t found the thing –’ ‘but, professor,’ piped up Parvati_Patil, ‘you’d probably have to use dark magic to open it –’ ‘just because a wizard doesn’t use dark magic, doesn’t mean he can’t, Parvati_Patil,’ snapped professor binns. ‘i repeat, if the likes of Albus_Dumbledore –’ ‘but maybe you’ve got to be related to slytherin, so Albus_Dumbledore couldn’t –’ began Dean_Thomas, but professor binns had had enough. ‘that will do,’ he said sharply. ‘it is a myth! it does not exist! there is not a shred of evidence that slytherin ever built so much as a secret broom cupboard! i regret telling you such a foolish story! we will return, if you please, to history, to solid, believable, verifiable fact!’ and within five minutes, the class had sunk back into its usual torpor. * ‘i always knew Salazar_Slytherin was a twisted old loony,’ Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger, as they fought their way through the teeming corridors at the end of the lesson to drop off their bags before dinner. ‘but i never knew he started all this pure-blood stuff. i wouldn’t be in his house if you paid me. honestly, if the sorting hat had tried to put me in slytherin, i’d’ve got the train straight back home …’ Hermione_Granger nodded fervently, but Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. his stomach had just dropped unpleasantly. Harry_Potter had never told Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger that the sorting hat had seriously considered putting him in slytherin. he could remember, as though it was yesterday, the small voice that had spoken in his ear when he’d placed the hat on his head a year before. ‘you could be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and slytherin would help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that …’ but Harry_Potter, who had already heard of slytherin house’s reputation for turning out dark wizards, had thought desperately, ‘not slytherin!’ and the hat had said, ‘oh, well, if you’re sure … better be gryffindor …’ as they were shunted along in the throng, Colin_Creevey went past. ‘hiya, Harry_Potter!’ ‘hullo, Colin_Creevey,’ said Harry_Potter automatically. ‘Harry_Potter – Harry_Potter – a boy in my class has been saying you’re –’ but Colin_Creevey was so small he couldn’t fight against the tide of people bearing him towards the great hall; they heard him squeak, ‘see you, Harry_Potter!’ and he was gone. ‘what’s a boy in his class saying about you?’ Hermione_Granger wondered. ‘that i’m slytherin’s heir, i expect,’ said Harry_Potter, his stomach dropping another inch or so, as he suddenly remembered the way Justin_Finch-Fletchley finch- fletchley had run away from him at lunchtime. ‘people here’ll believe anything,’ said Ronald_Weasley in disgust. the crowd thinned and they were able to climb the next staircase without difficulty. ‘d’you really think there’s a chamber of secrets?’ Ronald_Weasley asked Hermione_Granger. ‘i don’t know,’ she said, frowning. ‘Albus_Dumbledore couldn’t cure Mrs_Norris, and that makes me think that whatever attacked her might not be – well – human.’ as she spoke, they turned a corner and found themselves at the end of the very corridor where the attack had happened. they stopped and looked. the scene was just as it had been that night, except that there was no stiff cat hanging from the torch bracket, and an empty chair stood against the wall bearing the message ‘the chamber has been opened.’ ‘that’s where filch has been keeping guard,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered. they looked at each other. the corridor was deserted. ‘can’t hurt to have a poke around,’ said Harry_Potter, dropping his bag and getting to his hands and knees so that he could crawl along, searching for clues. ‘scorch marks!’ he said. ‘here – and here –’ ‘come and look at this!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘this is funny …’ Harry_Potter got up and crossed to the window next to the message on the wall. Hermione_Granger was pointing at the topmost pane, where around twenty spiders were scuttling, apparently fighting to get through a small crack in the glass. a long, silvery thread was dangling like a rope, as though they had all climbed it in their hurry to get outside. ‘have you ever seen spiders act like that?’ said Hermione_Granger wonderingly. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘have you, Ronald_Weasley Ronald_Weasley’ he looked over his shoulder. Ronald_Weasley was standing well back, and seemed to be fighting the impulse to run. ‘what’s up?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i – don’t – like – spiders,’ said Ronald_Weasley tensely. ‘i never knew that,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking at Ronald_Weasley in surprise. ‘you’ve used spiders in potions loads of times …’ ‘i don’t mind them dead,’ said Ronald_Weasley who was carefully looking anywhere but at the window, ‘i just don’t like the way they move …’ Hermione_Granger giggled. ‘it’s not funny,’ said Ronald_Weasley fiercely. ‘if you must know, when i was three, Fred_Weasley turned my – my Edward_Lupin bear into a dirty great spider because i broke his toy broomstick. you wouldn’t like them either if you’d been holding your bear and suddenly it had too many legs and …’ he broke off, shuddering. Hermione_Granger was obviously still trying not to laugh. feeling they had better get off the subject, Harry_Potter said, ‘remember all that water on the floor? where did that come from? someone’s mopped it up.’ ‘it was about here,’ said Ronald_Weasley recovering himself to walk a few paces past filch’s chair and pointing. ‘level with this door.’ he reached for the brass doorknob but suddenly withdrew his hand as though he’d been burned. ‘what’s the matter?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘can’t go in there,’ said Ronald_Weasley gruffly, ‘that’s a girls’ toilet.’ ‘oh, Ronald_Weasley there won’t be anyone in there,’ said Hermione_Granger, standing up and coming over. ‘that’s Myrtle_Warren’s place. come on, let’s have a look.’ and ignoring the large ‘out of order’ sign, she opened the door. it was the gloomiest, most depressing bathroom Harry_Potter had ever set foot in. under a large, cracked and spotted mirror were a row of chipped, stone sinks. the floor was damp and reflected the dull light given off by the stubs of a few candles, burning low in their holders; the wooden doors to the cubicles were flaking and scratched and one of them was dangling off its hinges. Hermione_Granger put her fingers to her lips and set off towards the end cubicle. when she reached it she said, ‘hello, Myrtle_Warren, how are you?’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley went to look. Myrtle_Warren was floating on the cistern of the toilet, picking a spot on her chin. ‘this is a girls’ bathroom,’ she said, eyeing Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter suspiciously. ‘they’re not girls.’ ‘no,’ Hermione_Granger agreed. ‘i just wanted to show them how – er – nice it is in here.’ she waved vaguely at the dirty old mirror and the damp floor. ‘ask her if she saw anything,’ Harry_Potter mouthed at Hermione_Granger. ‘what are you whispering?’ said Myrtle_Warren, staring at him. ‘nothing,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘we wanted to ask –’ ‘i wish people would stop talking behind my back!’ said Myrtle_Warren, in a voice choked with tears. ‘i do have feelings, you know, even if i am dead.’ ‘Myrtle_Warren, no one wants to upset you,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘Harry_Potter only –’ ‘no one wants to upset me! that’s a good one!’ howled Myrtle_Warren. ‘my life was nothing but misery at this place and now people come along ruining my death!’ ‘we wanted to ask you if you’d seen anything funny lately,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly, ‘because a cat was attacked right outside your front door on hallowe’en.’ ‘did you see anyone near here that night?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i wasn’t paying attention,’ said Myrtle_Warren dramatically. ‘Peeves upset me so much i came in here and tried to kill myself. then, of course, i remembered that i’m – that i’m –’ ‘already dead,’ said Ronald_Weasley helpfully. Myrtle_Warren gave a tragic sob, rose up in the air, turned over and dived head first into the toilet, splashing water all over them and vanishing from sight; from the direction of her muffled sobs, she had come to rest somewhere in the u- bend. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley stood with their mouths open, but Hermione_Granger shrugged wearily and said, ‘honestly, that was almost cheerful for Myrtle_Warren … come on, let’s go.’ Harry_Potter had barely closed the door on Myrtle_Warren’s gurgling sobs when a loud voice made all three of them jump. ‘ron!’ Percy_Weasley had stopped dead at the head of the stairs, prefect badge agleam, an expression of complete shock on his face. ‘that’s a girls’ bathroom!’ he gasped. ‘what were you –?’ ‘just having a look around,’ Ronald_Weasley shrugged. ‘clues, you know …’ Percy_Weasley swelled in a manner that reminded Harry_Potter forcefully of Molly_Weasley. ‘get – away – from – there –’ he said, striding towards them and starting to chivvy them along, flapping his arms. ‘don’t you care what this looks like? coming back here while everyone’s at dinner …’ ‘why shouldn’t we be here?’ said Ronald_Weasley hotly, stopping short and glaring at Percy_Weasley. ‘listen, we never laid a finger on that cat!’ ‘that’s what i told Ginevra_Weasley,’ said Percy_Weasley fiercely, ‘but she still seems to think you’re going to be expelled; i’ve never seen her so upset, crying her eyes out. you might think of her, all the first-years are thoroughly over-excited by this business –’ ‘you don’t care about Ginevra_Weasley,’ said Ronald_Weasley whose ears were reddening now. ‘you’re just worried i’m going to mess up your chances of being head boy.’ ‘five points from gryffindor!’ Percy_Weasley said tersely, fingering his prefect badge. ‘and i Hope_Howell it teaches you a lesson! no more detective work, or i’ll write to mum!’ and he strode off, the back of his neck as red as ron’s ears. * Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger chose seats as far as possible from Percy_Weasley in the common room that night. Ronald_Weasley was still in a very bad temper and kept blotting his charms homework. when he reached absently for his wand to remove the smudges, it ignited the parchment. fuming almost as much as his homework, Ronald_Weasley slammed the standard book of spells, grade 2 shut. to Harry_Potter’s surprise, Hermione_Granger followed suit. ‘who can it be, though?’ she said in a quiet voice, as though continuing a conversation they had just been having. ‘who’d want all the squibs and muggle-borns out of hogwarts?’ ‘let’s think,’ said Ronald_Weasley in mock puzzlement. ‘who do we know who thinks muggle-borns are scum?’ he looked at Hermione_Granger. Hermione_Granger looked back, unconvinced. ‘if you’re talking about malfoy –’ ‘of course i am!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you heard him: “you’ll be next, mudbloods!” come on, you’ve only got to look at his foul rat face to know it’s him –’ ‘malfoy, the heir of slytherin?’ said Hermione_Granger sceptically. ‘look at his family,’ said Harry_Potter, closing his books, too. ‘the whole lot of them have been in slytherin, he’s always boasting about it. they could easily be slytherin’s descendants. his father’s definitely evil enough.’ ‘they could’ve had the key to the chamber of secrets for centuries!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘handing it down, father to son …’ ‘well,’ said Hermione_Granger cautiously, ‘i suppose it’s possible …’ ‘but how do we prove it?’ said Harry_Potter darkly. ‘there might be a way,’ said Hermione_Granger slowly, dropping her voice still further with a quick glance across the room at Percy_Weasley. ‘of course, it would be difficult. and dangerous, very dangerous. we’d be breaking about fifty school rules, i expect.’ ‘if, in a month or so, you feel like explaining, you will let us know, won’t you?’ said Ronald_Weasley irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘all right,’ said Hermione_Granger coldly. ‘what we’d need to do is to get inside the slytherin common room and ask malfoy a few questions without him realising it’s us.’ ‘but that’s impossible,’ Harry_Potter said, as Ronald_Weasley laughed. ‘no, it’s not,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘all we’d need would be some polyjuice potion.’ ‘what’s that?’ said Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter together. ‘snape mentioned it in class a few weeks ago –’ ‘d’you think we’ve got nothing better to do in potions than listen to snape?’ muttered Ronald_Weasley ‘it transforms you into somebody else. think about it! we could change into three of the slytherins. no one would know it was us. malfoy would probably tell us anything. he’s probably boasting about it in the slytherin common room right now, if only we could hear him.’ ‘this polyjuice stuff sounds a bit dodgy to me,’ said Ronald_Weasley frowning. ‘what if we were stuck looking like three of the slytherins for ever?’ ‘it wears off after a while,’ said Hermione_Granger, waving her hand impatiently, ‘but getting hold of the recipe will be very difficult. snape said it was in a book called moste potente potions and it’s bound to be in the restricted section of the library.’ there was only one way to get out a book from the restricted section: you needed a signed note of permission from a teacher. ‘hard to see why we’d want the book, really,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘if we weren’t going to try and make one of the potions.’ ‘i think,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘that if we made it sound as though we were just interested in the theory, we might stand a chance …’ ‘oh, come on, no teacher’s going to fall for that,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘they’d have to be really thick …’ 