— chapter eight — the deathday party october arrived, spreading a damp chill over the grounds and into the castle. madam pomfrey, the matron, was kept busy by a sudden spate of colds among the staff and students. her pepperup potion worked instantly, though it left the drinker smoking at the ears for several hours afterwards. Ginevra_Weasley weasley, who had been looking peaky, was bullied into taking some by Percy_Weasley. the steam pouring from under her vivid hair gave the impression that her whole head was on fire. raindrops the size of bullets thundered on the castle windows for days on end; the lake rose, the flowerbeds turned into muddy streams and Rubeus_Hagrid’s pumpkins swelled to the size of garden sheds. Oliver_Wood’s enthusiasm for regular training sessions, however, was not dampened, which was why Harry_Potter was to be found, late one stormy saturday afternoon a few days before hallowe’en, returning to gryffindor tower, drenched to the skin and splattered with mud. even aside from the rain and wind it hadn’t been a happy practice session. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who had been spying on the slytherin team, had seen for themselves the speed of those new nimbus two thousand and ones. they reported that the slytherin team were no more than seven greenish blurs, shooting through the air like jump-jets. as Harry_Potter squelched along the deserted corridor he came across somebody who looked just as preoccupied as he was. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, the ghost of gryffindor tower, was staring morosely out of a window, muttering under his breath, ‘… don’t fulfil their requirements … half an inch, if that …’ ‘hello, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘hello, hello,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, starting and looking round. he wore a dashing, plumed hat on his long curly hair, and a tunic with a ruff, which concealed the fact that his neck was almost completely severed. he was pale as smoke, and Harry_Potter could see right through him to the dark sky and torrential rain outside. ‘you look troubled, young potter,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, folding a transparent letter as he spoke and tucking it inside his doublet. ‘so do you,’ said Harry_Potter.   ‘ah,’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington waved an elegant hand, ‘a matter of no importance … it’s not as though i really wanted to join … thought i’d apply, but apparently i “don’t fulfil requirements”.’ in spite of his airy tone, there was a look of great bitterness on his face. ‘but you would think, wouldn’t you,’ he erupted suddenly, pulling the letter back out of his pocket, ‘that getting hit forty-five times in the neck with a blunt axe would qualify you to join the headless hunt?’ ‘oh – yes,’ said Harry_Potter, who was obviously supposed to agree. ‘i mean, nobody wishes more than i do that it had all been quick and clean, and my head had come off properly, i mean, it would have saved me a great deal of pain and ridicule. however …’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington shook his letter open and read furiously. ‘we can only accept huntsmen whose heads have parted company with their bodies. you will appreciate that it would be impossible otherwise for members to participate in hunt activities such as horseback head-juggling and head polo. it is with the greatest regret, therefore, that i must inform you that you do not fulfil our requirements. with very best wishes, sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore.’ fuming, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington stuffed the letter away. ‘half an inch of skin and sinew holding my neck on, Harry_Potter! most people would think that’s good and beheaded, but oh no, it’s not enough for sir properly decapitated-podmore.’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington took several deep breaths and then said, in a far calmer tone, ‘so – what’s bothering you? anything i can do?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘not unless you know where we can get seven free nimbus two thousand and ones for our match against sly–’ the rest of Harry_Potter’s sentence was drowned by a high-pitched mewing from somewhere near his ankles. he looked down and found himself gazing into a pair of lamp-like yellow eyes. it was Mrs_Norris, the skeletal grey cat who was used by the caretaker, Argus_Filch, as a sort of deputy in his endless battle against students. ‘you’d better get out of here, Harry_Potter,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington quickly. ‘filch isn’t in a good mood. he’s got flu and some third-years accidentally plastered frog brains all over the ceiling in Mundungus_Fletchereon five; he’s been cleaning all morning, and if he sees you dripping mud all over the place …’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter, backing away from the accusing stare of Mrs_Norris, but not quickly enough. drawn to the spot by the mysterious power that seemed to connect him with his foul cat, Argus_Filch burst suddenly through a tapestry to Harry_Potter’s right, wheezing and looking wildly about for the rule- breaker. there was a thick tartan scarf bound around his head, and his nose was unusually purple. ‘filth!’ he shouted, his jowls aquiver, his eyes popping alarmingly as he pointed at the muddy puddle that had dripped from Harry_Potter’s quidditch robes. ‘mess and muck everywhere! i’ve had enough of it, i tell you! follow me, potter!’ so Harry_Potter waved a Gloomy_nuns goodbye to Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, and followed filch back downstairs, doubling the number of muddy footprints on the floor. Harry_Potter had never been inside filch’s office before; it was a place most students avoided. the room was dingy and windowless, lit by a single oil lamp dangling from the low ceiling. a faint smell of fried fish lingered about the place. wooden filing cabinets stood around the walls; from their labels, Harry_Potter could see that they contained details of every pupil filch had ever punished. Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley had an entire drawer to themselves. a highly polished collection of chains and manacles hung on the wall behind filch’s desk. it was common knowledge that he was always begging Albus_Dumbledore to let him suspend students by their ankles from the ceiling. filch grabbed a quill from a pot on his desk and began shuffling around looking for parchment. ‘Mundungus_Fletcher,’ he muttered furiously, ‘great sizzling dragon bogies … frog brains … rat intestines … i’ve had enough of it … make an example … where’s the form … yes …’ he retrieved a large roll of parchment from his desk drawer and stretched it out in front of him, dipping his long black quill into the ink pot. ‘name … Harry_Potter. crime …’ ‘it was only a bit of mud!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘it’s only a bit of mud to you, boy, but to me it’s an extra hour scrubbing!’ shouted filch, a drip shivering unpleasantly at the end of his bulbous nose. ‘crime … befouling the castle … suggested sentence …’ dabbing at his streaming nose, filch squinted unpleasantly at Harry_Potter, who waited with bated breath for his sentence to fall. but as filch lowered his quill, there was a great bang! on the ceiling of the office, which made the oil lamp rattle. ‘Peeves!’ filch roared, flinging down his quill in a transport of rage. ‘i’ll have you this time, i’ll have you!’ and without a backwards glance at Harry_Potter, filch ran flat-footed from the office, Mrs_Norris streaking alongside him. Peeves was the school poltergeist, a grinning, airborne menace who lived to cause havoc and distress. Harry_Potter didn’t much like Peeves, but couldn’t help feeling grateful for his timing. Hope_Howellfully, whatever Peeves had done (and it sounded as though he’d wrecked something very big this time) would distract filch from Harry_Potter. thinking that he should probably wait for filch to come back, Harry_Potter sank into a moth-eaten chair next to the desk. there was only one thing on it apart from his half-completed form: a large, glossy, purple envelope with silver lettering on the front. with a quick glance at the door to check that filch wasn’t on his way back, Harry_Potter picked up the envelope and read: kwikspell a correspondence course in beginners’ magic intrigued, Harry_Potter flicked the envelope open and pulled out the sheaf of parchment inside. more curly silver writing on the front page said: feel out of step in the world of modern magic? find yourself making excuses not to perform simple spells? ever been taunted for your woeful wandwork? there is an answer! kwikspell is an all-new, fail-safe, quick-result, easy-learn course. hundreds of witches and wizards have benefited from the kwikspell method! madam z. nettles of topsham writes: ‘i had no memory for incantations and my potions were a family joke! now, after a kwikspell course, i am the centre of attention at parties and friends beg for the recipe of my scintillation solution!’ warlock d. j. prod of didsbury says: ‘my wife used to sneer at my feeble charms but one month into your fabulous kwikspell course i succeeded in turning her into a yak! thank you, kwikspell!’ fascinated, Harry_Potter thumbed through the rest of the envelope’s contents. why       on earth did filch want a kwikspell course? did this mean he wasn’t a proper wizard? Harry_Potter was just reading ‘lesson one: holding your wand (some useful tips)’ when shuffling footsteps outside told him filch was coming back. stuffing the parchment back into the envelope, Harry_Potter threw it back onto the desk just as the door opened. filch was looking triumphant. ‘that vanishing cabinet was extremely valuable!’ he was saying gleefully to Mrs_Norris. ‘we’ll have Peeves out this time, my sweet.’ his eyes fell on Harry_Potter and then darted to the kwikspell envelope which, Harry_Potter realised too late, was lying two feet away from where it had started. filch’s pasty face went brick red. Harry_Potter braCedric_Diggory himself for a tidal wave of fury. filch hobbled across to his desk, snatched up the envelope and threw it into a drawer. ‘have you – did you read –?’ he spluttered. ‘no,’ Harry_Potter lied quickly. filch’s knobbly hands were twisting together. ‘if i thought you’d read my private … not that it’s mine … for a friend … be that as it may … however …’ Harry_Potter was staring at him, alarmed; filch had never looked madder. his eyes were popping, a tic was going in one of his pouchy cheeks and the tartan scarf didn’t help. ‘very well … go … and don’t breathe a word … not that … however, if you didn’t read … go now, i have to write up Peeves’ report … go …’ amazed at his luck, Harry_Potter sped out of the office, up the corridor and back upstairs. to escape from filch’s office without punishment was probably some kind of school record. ‘Harry_Potter! Harry_Potter! did it work?’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington came gliding out of a classroom. behind him, Harry_Potter could see the wreckage of a large black and gold cabinet which appeared to have been dropped from a great height. ‘i persuaded Peeves to crash it right over filch’s office,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington eagerly. ‘thought it might distract him –’ ‘was that you?’ said Harry_Potter gratefully. ‘yeah, it worked, i didn’t even get detention. thanks, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington!’ they set off up the corridor together. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory, was still holding sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore’s rejection letter. ‘i wish there was something i could do for you about the headless hunt,’ Harry_Potter said. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington stopped in his tracks and Harry_Potter walked right through him. he wished he hadn’t; it was like stepping through an icy shower. ‘but there is something you could do for me,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington excitedly. ‘Harry_Potter – would i be asking too much – but no, you wouldn’t want –’ ‘what is it?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, this hallowe’en will be my five hundredth deathday,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, drawing himself up and looking dignified. ‘oh,’ said Harry_Potter, not sure whether he should look sorry or happy about this. ‘right.’ ‘i’m holding a party down in one of the roomier Mundungus_Fletchereons. friends will be coming from all over the country. it would be such an honour if you would attend. Arthur_Weasley and miss granger would be most welcome too, of course – but i dare say you’d rather go to the school feast?’ he watched Harry_Potter on tenterhooks. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter quickly, ‘i’ll come –’ ‘my dear boy! Harry_Potter, at my deathday party! and,’ he hesitated, looking excited, ‘do you think you could possibly mention to sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore how very frightening and impressive you find me?’ ‘of – of course,’ said Harry_Potter. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington beamed at him. * ‘a deathday party?’ said Hermione_Granger keenly, when Harry_Potter had changed at last and joined her and Ronald_Weasley in the common room. ‘i bet there aren’t many living people who can say they’ve been to one of those – it’ll be fascinating!’ ‘why would anyone want to celebrate the day they died?’ said Ronald_Weasley who was halfway through his potions homework and grumpy. ‘sounds dead depressing to me …’ rain was still lashing the windows, which were now inky black, but inside, all looked bright and cheerful. the firelight glowed over the countless squashy armchairs where people sat reading, talking, doing homework or, in the case of Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley, trying to find out what would happen if you fed a filibuster firework to a salamander. Fred_Weasley had ‘rescued’ the brilliant orange, fire-dwelling lizard from a care of magical creatures class and it was now smouldering gently on a table surrounded by a knot of curious people. Harry_Potter was on the point of telling Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger about filch and the kwikspell course when the salamander suddenly whizzed into the air, emitting loud sparks and bangs as it whirled wildly round the room. the sight of Percy_Weasley bellowing himself hoarse at Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, the spectacular display of tangerine stars showering from the salamander’s mouth, and its escape into the fire, with accompanying explosions, drove both filch and the kwikspell envelope from Harry_Potter’s mind. * by the time hallowe’en arrived, Harry_Potter was regretting his rash promise to go to the deathday party. the rest of the school were happily anticipating their hallowe’en feast; the great hall had been decorated with the usual live bats, Rubeus_Hagrid’s vast pumpkins had been carved into lanterns large enough for three men to sit in and there were rumours that Albus_Dumbledore had booked a troupe of dancing skeletons for the entertainment. ‘a promise is a promise,’ Hermione_Granger reminded Harry_Potter bossily. ‘you said you’d go to the deathday party.’ so, at seven o’clock, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger walked straight past the doorway to the packed great hall, which was glittering invitingly with gold plates and candles, and directed their steps instead towards the Mundungus_Fletchereons. the passageway leading to Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s party had been lined with candles too, though the effect was far from cheerful: these were long, thin, jet-black tapers, all burning bright blue, casting a dim, ghostly light even over their own living faces. the temperature dropped with every step they took. as Harry_Potter shivered and drew his robes tightly around him, he heard what sounded like a thousand fingernails scraping an enormous blackboard. ‘is that supposed to be music?’ Ronald_Weasley whispered. they turned a corner and saw Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington standing at a doorway hung with black velvet drapes. ‘my dear friends,’ he said mournfully, ‘welcome, welcome … so pleased you could come …’ he swept off his plumed hat and bowed them inside. it was an incredible sight. the Mundungus_Fletchereon was full of hundreds of pearly- white, translucent people, mostly drifting around a crowded dance floor, waltzing to the dreadful, quavering sound of thirty musical saws, played by an orchestra on a black-draped platform. a chandelier overhead blazed midnight blue with a thousand more black candles. their breath rose in a mist before them; it was like stepping into a freezer. ‘shall we have a look around?’ Harry_Potter suggested, wanting to warm up his feet. ‘careful not to walk through anyone,’ said Ronald_Weasley nervously, and they set off around the edge of the dance floor. they passed a group of Gloomy_nuns, a ragged man wearing chains, and the Fat_Friar, a cheerful hufflepuff ghost, who was talking to a Knight_with_an_arrow_sticking_out_of_his_forehead. Harry_Potter wasn’t surprised to see that the Bloody_Baron, a gaunt, staring slytherin ghost covered in silver bloodstains, was being given a wide berth by the other ghosts. ‘oh no,’ said Hermione_Granger, stopping abruptly. ‘turn back, turn back, i don’t want to talk to Myrtle_Warren –’ ‘who?’ said Harry_Potter, as they backtracked quickly. ‘she haunts the girls’ toilet on the first floor,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘she haunts a toilet?’ ‘yes. it’s been out of order all year because she keeps having tantrums and flooding the place. i never went in there anyway if i could avoid it, it’s awful trying to go to the loo with her Wailing_Widow at you –’ ‘look, food!’ said Ronald_Weasley on the other side of the Mundungus_Fletchereon was a long table, also covered in black velvet. they approached it eagerly, but next moment had stopped in their tracks, horrified. the smell was quite disgusting. large, rotten fish were laid on handsome silver platters; cakes, burned charcoal black, were heaped on salvers; there was a great maggoty haggis, a slab of cheese covered in furry green mould and, in pride of place, an enormous grey cake in the shape of a tombstone, with tar-like icing forming the words, sir Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington died 31st october, 1492 Harry_Potter watched, amazed, as a portly ghost approached the table, crouched low and walked through it, his mouth held wide so that it passed through one of the stinking salmon. ‘can you taste it if you walk through it?’ Harry_Potter asked him. ‘almost,’ said the ghost sadly, and he drifted away. ‘i expect they’ve let it rot to give it a stronger flavour,’ said Hermione_Granger knowledgeably, pinching her nose and leaning closer to look at the putrid haggis. ‘can we move? i feel sick,’ said Ronald_Weasley they had barely turned around, however, when a little man swooped suddenly from under the table and came to a halt in mid-air before them.   ‘hello, Peeves,’ said Harry_Potter cautiously. unlike the ghosts around them, Peeves the poltergeist was the very reverse of pale and transparent. he was wearing a bright orange party hat, a revolving bow-tie and a broad grin on his wide, wicked face. ‘nibbles?’ he said sweetly, offering them a bowl of peanuts covered in fungus. ‘no thanks,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘heard you talking about poor Myrtle_Warren,’ said Peeves, his eyes dancing. ‘rude you was about poor Myrtle_Warren.’ he took a deep breath and bellowed, ‘oy! Myrtle_Warren!’ ‘oh, no, Peeves, don’t tell her what i said, she’ll be really upset,’ Hermione_Granger whispered frantically. ‘i didn’t mean it, i don’t mind her – er, hello, Myrtle_Warren.’ the squat ghost of a girl had glided over. she had the glummest face Harry_Potter had ever seen, half-hidden behind lank hair and thick, pearly spectacles. ‘what?’ she said sulkily. ‘how are you, Myrtle_Warren?’ said Hermione_Granger, in a falsely bright voice. ‘it’s nice to see you out of the toilet.’ Myrtle_Warren sniffed. ‘miss granger was just talking about you –’ said Peeves slyly in Myrtle_Warren’s ear. ‘just saying – saying – how nice you look tonight,’ said Hermione_Granger, glaring at Peeves. Myrtle_Warren eyed Hermione_Granger suspiciously. ‘you’re making fun of me,’ she said, silver tears welling rapidly in her small, see-through eyes. ‘no – honestly – didn’t i just say how nice Myrtle_Warren’s looking?’ said Hermione_Granger, nudging Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley painfully in the ribs. ‘oh, yeah …’ ‘she did …’ ‘don’t lie to me,’ Myrtle_Warren gasped, tears now flooding down her face, while Peeves chuckled happily over her shoulder. ‘d’you think i don’t know what people call me behind my back? fat Myrtle_Warren! ugly Myrtle_Warren! miserable, moaning, moping Myrtle_Warren!’ ‘you’ve missed out “spotty”,’ Peeves hissed in her ear. Myrtle_Warren burst into anguished sobs and fled from the Mundungus_Fletchereon. Peeves shot after her, pelting her with mouldy peanuts, yelling, ‘spotty! spotty!’ ‘oh, dear,’ said Hermione_Granger sadly. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington now drifted towards them through the crowd. ‘enjoying yourselves?’ ‘oh, yes,’ they lied. ‘not a bad turnout,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington proudly. ‘the Wailing_Widow came all the way up from kent … it’s nearly time for my speech, i’d better go and warn the orchestra …’ the orchestra, however, stopped playing at that very moment. they, and everyone else in the Mundungus_Fletchereon, fell silent, looking around in excitement, as a hunting horn sounded. ‘oh, here we go,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington bitterly. through the Mundungus_Fletchereon wall burst a dozen ghost horses, each ridden by a headless horseman. the assembly clapped wildly; Harry_Potter started to clap too, but stopped quickly at the sight of Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s face. the horses galloped into the middle of the dance floor and halted, rearing and plunging; a large ghost at the front, whose bearded head was under his arm, blowing the horn, leapt down, lifted his head high in the air so he could see over the crowd (everyone laughed) and strode over to Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, squashing his head back onto his neck. ‘Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington!’ he roared. ‘how are you? head still hanging in there?’ he gave a hearty guffaw and clapped Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington on the shoulder. ‘welcome, Patrick_Delaney-Podmore,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington stiffly. ‘live ’uns!’ said sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore, spotting Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger and giving a huge, fake jump of astonishment, so that his head fell off again (the crowd howled with laughter). ‘very amusing,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington darkly. ‘don’t mind Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington!’ shouted sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore’s head from the floor. ‘still upset we won’t let him join the hunt! but i mean to say – look at the fellow –’ ‘i think,’ said Harry_Potter hurriedly, at a meaningful look from Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, ‘Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s very – frightening and – er –’ ‘ha!’ yelled sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore’s head. ‘bet he asked you to say that!’ ‘if i could have everyone’s attention, it’s time for my speech!’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington loudly, striding towards the podium and climbing into an icy- blue spotlight. ‘my late lamented lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great sorrow …’ but nobody heard much more. sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore and the rest of the headless hunt had just started a game of head hockey and the crowd were turning to watch. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington tried vainly to recapture his audience, but gave up as sir Patrick_Delaney-Podmore’s head went sailing past him to loud cheers. Harry_Potter was very cold by now, not to mention hungry. ‘i can’t stand much more of this,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered, his teeth chattering, as the orchestra ground back into action and the ghosts swept back onto the dance floor. ‘let’s go,’ Harry_Potter agreed. they backed towards the door, nodding and beaming at anyone who looked at them, and a minute later were hurrying back up the passageway full of black candles. ‘pudding might not be finished yet,’ said Ronald_Weasley Hope_Howellfully, leading the way towards the steps to the entrance hall. and then Harry_Potter heard it. ‘… rip … tear … kill …’ it was the same voice, the same cold, murderous voice he had heard in lockhart’s office. he stumbled to a halt, clutching at the stone wall, listening with all his might, looking around, squinting up and down the dimly lit passageway. ‘Harry_Potter, what’re you –?’ ‘it’s that voice again – shut up a minute –’ ‘… soo hungry … for so long …’ ‘listen!’ said Harry_Potter urgently, and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger froze, watching him. ‘… kill … time to kill …’ the voice was growing fainter. Harry_Potter was sure it was moving away – moving upwards. a mixture of fear and excitement gripped him as he stared at the dark ceiling; how could it be moving upwards? was it a phantom, to whom stone ceilings didn’t matter? ‘this way,’ he shouted, and he began to run, up the stairs, into the entrance hall. it was no good hoping to hear anything here, the babble of talk from the hallowe’en feast was echoing out of the great hall. Harry_Potter sprinted up the marble staircase to the first floor, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger clattering behind him. ‘Harry_Potter, what are we –’ ‘shh!’ Harry_Potter strained his ears. distantly, from the floor above, and growing fainter still, he heard the voice: ‘… i smell blood … i smell blood!’ his stomach lurched. ‘it’s going to kill someone!’ he shouted, and ignoring ron and Hermione_Granger’s bewildered faces, he ran up the next flight of steps three at a time, trying to listen over his own pounding footsteps. Harry_Potter hurtled around the whole of the second floor, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger panting behind him, not stopping until they turned a corner into the last, deserted passage. ‘Harry_Potter, what was that all about?’ said Ronald_Weasley wiping sweat off his face. ‘i couldn’t hear anything …’ but Hermione_Granger gave a sudden gasp, pointing down the corridor. ‘look!’ something was shining on the wall ahead. they approached, slowly, squinting through the darkness. foot-high words had been daubed on the wall between two windows, shimmering in the light cast by the flaming torches. the chamber of secrets has been opened. enemies of the heir, beware. ‘what’s that thing – hanging underneath?’ said Ronald_Weasley a slight quiver in his voice. as they edged nearer, Harry_Potter almost slipped over: there was a large puddle of water on the floor. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger grabbed him, and they inched towards the message, eyes fixed on a dark shadow beneath it. all three of them realised what it was at once, and leapt backwards with a splash. Mrs_Norris, the caretaker’s cat, was hanging by her tail from the torch bracket. she was stiff as a board, her eyes wide and staring. for a few seconds, they didn’t move. then Ronald_Weasley said, ‘let’s get out of here.’ ‘shouldn’t we try and help –’ Harry_Potter began awkwardly. ‘trust me,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘we don’t want to be found here.’ but it was too late. a rumble, as though of distant thunder, told them that the feast had just ended. from either end of the corridor where they stood came the sound of hundreds of feet climbing the stairs, and the loud, happy talk of well-fed people; next moment, students were crashing into the passage from both ends. the chatter, the bustle, the noise died suddenly as the people in front spotted the hanging cat. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stood alone, in the middle of the corridor, as silence fell among the mass of students, pressing forward to see the grisly sight.   then someone shouted through the quiet. ‘enemies of the heir, beware! you’ll be next, mudbloods!’ it was Draco_Malfoy. he had pushed to the front of the crowd, his cold eyes alive, his usually bloodless face flushed, as he grinned at the sight of the hanging, immobile cat. 