— chapter five — the whomping willow the end of the summer holidays came too quickly for Harry_Potter’s liking. he was looking forward to getting back to hogwarts, but his month at the burrow had been the happiest of his life. it was difficult not to feel jealous of Ronald_Weasley when he thought of Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley and the sort of welcome he could expect next time he turned up in privet drive. on their last evening, Molly_Weasley conjured up a sumptuous dinner which included all of Harry_Potter’s favourite things, ending with a mouthwatering treacle pudding. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley rounded off the evening with a display of filibuster fireworks; they filled the kitchen with red and blue stars that bounced from ceiling to wall for at least half an hour. then it was time for a last mug of hot chocolate and bed. it took a long while to get started next morning. they were up at cock- crow, but somehow they still seemed to have a great deal to do. Molly_Weasley dashed about in a bad mood looking for spare socks and quills, people kept colliding on the stairs, half-dressed with bits of toast in their hands, and Arthur_Weasley nearly broke his neck, tripping over a stray chicken as he crossed the yard carrying Ginevra_Weasley’s trunk to the car. Harry_Potter couldn’t see how eight people, six large trunks, two owls and a rat were going to fit into one small ford anglia. he had reckoned, of course, without the special features which Arthur_Weasley had added. ‘not a word to Molly_Weasley,’ he whispered to Harry_Potter as he opened the boot and showed him how it had been magically expanded so that the trunks fitted easily. when at last they were all in the car, Molly_Weasley glanced into the back seat, where Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Percy_Weasley were all sitting comfortably side by side, and said, ‘muggles do know more than we give them credit for, don’t they?’ she and Ginevra_Weasley got into the front seat, which had been stretched so that it resembled a park bench. ‘i mean, you’d never know it was this roomy from the outside, would you?’ Arthur_Weasley started up the engine and they trundled out of the yard, Harry_Potter turning back for a last look at the house. he barely had time to wonder when he’d see it again when they were back: George_Weasley had forgotten his box of   filibuster fireworks. five minutes after that, they skidded to a halt in the yard so that Fred_Weasley could run in for his broomstick. they had almost reached the motorway when Ginevra_Weasley shrieked that she’d left her diary. by the time she had clambered back into the car, they were running very late, and tempers were running high. Arthur_Weasley glanced at his watch and then at his wife. ‘Molly_Weasley, dear –’ ‘no, Arthur_Weasley.’ ‘no one would see. this little button here is an invisibility booster i installed – that’d get us up in the air – then we fly above the clouds. we’d be there in ten minutes and no one would be any the wiser …’ ‘i said no, Arthur_Weasley, not in broad daylight.’ they reached king’s cross at a quarter to eleven. Arthur_Weasley dashed across the road to get trolleys for their trunks and they all hurried into the station. Harry_Potter had caught the hogwarts express the previous year. the tricky bit was getting onto platform nine and three-quarters, which wasn’t visible to the muggle eye. what you had to do was walk through the solid barrier dividing platforms nine and ten. it didn’t hurt, but it had to be done carefully so that none of the muggles noticed you vanishing. ‘Percy_Weasley first,’ said Molly_Weasley, looking nervously at the clock overhead, which showed they had only five minutes to disappear casually through the barrier. Percy_Weasley strode briskly forward and vanished. Arthur_Weasley went next, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley followed. ‘i’ll take Ginevra_Weasley and you two come right after us,’ Molly_Weasley told Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley grabbing Ginevra_Weasley’s hand and setting off. in the blink of an eye they were gone. ‘let’s go together, we’ve only got a minute,’ Ronald_Weasley said to Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter made sure that Hedwig’s cage was safely wedged on top of his trunk and wheeled his trolley about to face the barrier. he felt perfectly confident; this wasn’t nearly as uncomfortable as using floo powder. both of them bent low over the handles of their trolleys and walked purposefully towards the barrier, gathering speed. a few feet away from it, they broke into a run and – crash. both trolleys hit the barrier and bounced backwards. ron’s trunk fell off with a loud thump, Harry_Potter was knocked off his feet, and Hedwig’s cage bounced onto the shiny floor and she rolled away, shrieking indignantly. people all around them stared and a guard nearby yelled, ‘what in blazes d’you think you’re doing?’ ‘lost control of the trolley,’ Harry_Potter gasped, clutching his ribs as he got up. Ronald_Weasley ran to pick up Hedwig, who was causing such a scene that there was a lot of muttering about cruelty to animals from the surrounding crowd. ‘why can’t we get through?’ Harry_Potter hissed to Ronald_Weasley ‘i dunno –’ Ronald_Weasley looked wildly around. a dozen curious people were still watching them. ‘we’re going to miss the train,’ Ronald_Weasley whispered. ‘i don’t understand why the gateway’s sealed itself …’ Harry_Potter looked up at the giant clock with a sickening feeling in the pit of his stomach. ten seconds … nine seconds … he wheeled his trolley forward cautiously until it was right against the barrier, and pushed with all his might. the metal remained solid. three seconds … two seconds … one second … ‘it’s gone,’ said Ronald_Weasley sounding stunned. ‘the train’s left. what if mum and dad can’t get back through to us? have you got any muggle money?’ Harry_Potter gave a hollow laugh. ‘Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley haven’t given me pocket money for about six years.’ Ronald_Weasley pressed his ear to the cold barrier. ‘can’t hear a thing,’ he said tensely. ‘what’re we going to do? i don’t know how long it’ll take mum and dad to get back to us.’ they looked around. people were still watching them, mainly because of Hedwig’s continuing screeches. ‘i think we’d better go and wait by the car,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we’re attracting too much atten–’ ‘Harry_Potter!’ said Ronald_Weasley his eyes gleaming. ‘the car!’ ‘what about it?’ ‘we can fly the car to hogwarts!’ ‘but i thought –’ ‘we’re stuck, right? and we’ve got to get to school, haven’t we? and even underage wizards are allowed to use magic if it’s a real emergency, section nineteen or something of the restriction of thingy …’ Harry_Potter’s feeling of panic turned suddenly to excitement. ‘can you fly it?’ ‘no problem,’ said Ronald_Weasley wheeling his trolley around to face the exit. ‘c’mon, let’s go, if we hurry we’ll be able to follow the hogwarts express.’ and they marched off through the crowd of curious muggles, out of the station and back into the side road where the old ford anglia was parked. Ronald_Weasley unlocked the cavernous boot with a series of taps from his wand. they heaved their trunks back in, put Hedwig on the back seat and got into the front. ‘check no one’s watching,’ said Ronald_Weasley starting the ignition with another tap of his wand. Harry_Potter stuck his head out of the window: traffic was rumbling along the main road ahead, but their street was empty. ‘ok,’ he said. Ronald_Weasley pressed a tiny silver button on the dashboard. the car around them vanished – and so did they. Harry_Potter could feel the seat vibrating beneath him, hear the engine, feel his hands on his knees and his glasses on his nose, but for all he could see, he had become a pair of eyeballs, floating a few feet above the ground in a dingy street full of parked cars. ‘let’s go,’ said ron’s voice from his right. the ground and the dirty buildings on either side fell away, dropping out of sight as the car rose; in seconds, the whole of london lay, smoky and glittering, below them. then there was a popping noise and the car, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley reappeared. ‘uh oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley jabbing at the invisibility booster. ‘it’s faulty –’ both of them pummelled it. the car vanished. then it flickered back again. ‘hold on!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled, and he slammed his foot on the accelerator; they shot straight into the low woolly clouds and everything turned dull and foggy. ‘now what?’ said Harry_Potter, blinking at the solid mass of cloud pressing in on them from all sides. ‘we need to see the train to know what direction to go in,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘dip back down again – quickly –’ they dropped back beneath the clouds and twisted around in their seats, squinting at the ground – ‘i can see it!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘right ahead – there!’ the hogwarts express was streaking along below them like a scarlet snake. ‘due north,’ said Ronald_Weasley checking the compass on the dashboard. ‘ok, we’ll just have to check on it every half an hour or so. hold on …’ and they shot up through the clouds. a minute later, they burst out into a blaze of sunlight. it was a different world. the wheels of the car skimmed the sea of Fluffy cloud, the sky a bright, endless blue under the blinding white sun. ‘all we’ve got to worry about now are aeroplanes,’ said Ronald_Weasley they looked at each other and started to laugh; for a long time, they couldn’t stop. it was as though they had been plunged into a fabulous dream. this, thought Harry_Potter, was surely the only way to travel: past swirls and turrets of snowy cloud, in a car full of hot, bright sunlight, with a fat pack of toffees in the glove compartment, and the prospect of seeing Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s jealous faces when they landed smoothly and spectacularly on the sweeping lawn in front of hogwarts castle. they made regular checks on the train as they flew further and further north, each dip beneath the clouds showing them a different view. london was soon far behind them, replaced by neat green fields which gave way in turn to wide, purplish moors, villages with tiny toy churches and a great city alive with cars like multi-coloured ants. several uneventful hours later, however, Harry_Potter had to admit that some of the fun was wearing off. the toffees had made them extremely thirsty and they had nothing to drink. he and Ronald_Weasley had pulled off their jumpers, but Harry_Potter’s t-shirt was sticking to the back of his seat and his glasses kept sliding down to the end of his sweaty nose. he had stopped noticing the fantastic cloud shapes now, and was thinking longingly of the train Miles_Bletchley below, where you could buy ice-cold pumpkin juice from a trolley pushed by a plump witch. why hadn’t they been able to get onto platform nine and three- quarters? ‘can’t be much further, can it?’ croaked Ronald_Weasley hours later still, as the sun started to sink into their floor of cloud, staining it a deep pink. ‘ready for another check on the train?’ it was still right below them, winding its way past a snow-capped mountain. it was much darker beneath the canopy of clouds. Ronald_Weasley put his foot on the accelerator and drove them upwards again, but as he did so, the engine began to whine. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley exchanged nervous glances. ‘it’s probably just tired,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘it’s never been this far before …’ and they both pretended not to notice the whining growing louder and louder as the sky became steadily darker. stars were blossoming in the blackness. Harry_Potter pulled his jumper back on, trying to ignore the way the windscreen wipers were now waving feebly, as though in protest. ‘not far,’ said Ronald_Weasley more to the car than to Harry_Potter, ‘not far now,’ and he patted the dashboard nervously. when they flew back beneath the clouds a little while later, they had to squint through the darkness for a landmark they knew. ‘there!’ Harry_Potter shouted, making Ronald_Weasley and Hedwig jump. ‘straight ahead!’ silhouetted on the dark horizon, high on the cliff over the lake, stood the many turrets and towers of hogwarts castle. but the car had begun to shudder and was losing speed. ‘come on,’ Ronald_Weasley said cajolingly, giving the steering wheel a little shake, ‘nearly there, come on –’ the engine groaned. narrow jets of steam were issuing from under the bonnet. Harry_Potter found himself gripping the edges of his seat very hard as they flew towards the lake. the car gave a nasty wobble. glancing out of his window, Harry_Potter saw the smooth, black, glassy surface of the water, a mile below. ron’s knuckles were white on the steering wheel. the car wobbled again. ‘come on,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered. they were over the lake … the castle was right ahead … Ronald_Weasley put his foot down. there was a loud clunk, a splutter, and the engine died completely. ‘uh oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley into the silence. the nose of the car dropped. they were falling, gathering speed, heading straight for the solid castle wall. ‘noooooo!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled, swinging the steering wheel around; they missed the dark stone wall by inches as the car turned in a great arc, soaring over the dark greenhouses, then the vegetable patch and then out over the black lawns, losing height all the time. Ronald_Weasley let go of the steering wheel completely and pulled his wand out of his back pocket. ‘stop! stop!’ he yelled, whacking the dashboard and the windscreen, but they were still plummeting, the ground flying up towards them … ‘mind that tree!’ Harry_Potter bellowed, lunging for the steering wheel, but too late – crunch. with an ear-splitting bang of metal on wood, they hit the thick tree trunk and dropped to the ground with a heavy jolt. steam was billowing from under the crumpled bonnet; Hedwig was shrieking in terror, a golf-ball-sized lump was throbbing on Harry_Potter’s head where he had hit the windscreen, and to his right, Ronald_Weasley let out a low, despairing groan. ‘are you ok?’ Harry_Potter said urgently. ‘my wand,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a shaky voice. ‘look at my wand.’ it had snapped, almost in two; the tip was dangling limply, held on by a few splinters. Harry_Potter opened his mouth to say he was sure they’d be able to mend it up at the school, but he never even got started. at that very moment, something hit his side of the car with the force of a charging bull, sending him lurching sideways into Ronald_Weasley just as an equally heavy blow hit the roof. ‘what’s happen–?’ Ronald_Weasley gasped, staring through the windscreen, and Harry_Potter looked around just in time to see a branch as thick as a python smash into it. the tree they had hit was attacking them. its trunk was bent almost double, and its gnarled boughs were pummelling every inch of the car it could reach. ‘aaargh!’ said Ronald_Weasley as another twisted limb punched a large dent into his door; the windscreen was now trembling under a hail of blows from knuckle- like twigs and a branch as thick as a battering ram was pounding furiously on the roof, which seemed to be caving in – ‘run for it!’ Ronald_Weasley shouted, throwing his full weight against his door, but next second he had been knocked backwards into Harry_Potter’s lap by a vicious upper cut from another branch. ‘we’re done for!’ he moaned, as the ceiling sagged, but suddenly the floor of the car was vibrating – the engine had re-started. ‘reverse!’ Harry_Potter yelled, and the car shot backwards. the tree was still trying to hit them; they could hear its roots creaking as it almost ripped itself up, lashing out at them as they sped out of reach. ‘that,’ panted Ronald_Weasley ‘was close. well done, car.’ the car, however, had reached the end of its tether. with two smart clunks, the doors flew open and Harry_Potter felt his seat tip sideways: next thing he knew he was sprawled on the damp ground. loud thuds told him that the car was ejecting their luggage from the boot. Hedwig’s cage flew through the air and burst open; she rose out of it with a loud, angry screech and sped off towards the castle without a backwards look. then, dented, scratched and steaming, the car rumbled off into the darkness, its rear lights blazing angrily. ‘come back!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled after it, brandishing his broken wand. ‘dad’ll kill me!’ but the car disappeared from view with one last snort from its exhaust. ‘can you believe our luck?’ said Ronald_Weasley miserably, bending down to pick up scabbers the rat. ‘of all the trees we could’ve hit, we had to get one that hits back.’ he glanced over his shoulder at the ancient tree, which was still flailing its branches threateningly. ‘come on,’ said Harry_Potter wearily, ‘we’d better get up to the school …’ it wasn’t at all the triumphant arrival they had pictured. stiff, cold and bruised, they seized the ends of their trunks and began dragging them up the grassy slope, towards the great oak front doors. ‘i think the feast’s already started,’ said Ronald_Weasley dropping his trunk at the foot of the front steps and crossing quietly to look through a brightly lit window. ‘hey, Harry_Potter, come and look – it’s the sorting!’ Harry_Potter hurried over and, together, he and Ronald_Weasley peered in at the great hall. innumerable candles were hovering in mid-air over four long, crowded tables, making the golden plates and goblets sparkle. overhead, the bewitched ceiling which always mirrored the sky outside, sparkled with stars. through the forest of pointed black hogwarts hats, Harry_Potter saw a long line of scared-looking first-years filing into the hall. Ginevra_Weasley was amongst them, easily visible because of her vivid weasley hair. meanwhile, professor Minerva_McGonagall, a bespectacled witch with her hair in a tight bun, was placing the famous hogwarts sorting hat on a stool before the newcomers. every year, this aged old hat, patched, frayed and dirty, sorted new students into the four hogwarts houses (gryffindor, hufflepuff, ravenclaw and slytherin). Harry_Potter well remembered putting it on, exactly one year ago, and waiting, petrified, for its decision as it muttered aloud in his ear. for a few horrible seconds he had feared that the hat was going to put him in slytherin, the house which had turned out more dark witches and wizards than any other – but he had ended up in gryffindor, along with Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and the rest of the weasleys. last term, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley had helped gryffindor win the house championship, beating slytherin for the first time in seven years. a very small, mousey-haired boy had been called forward to place the hat on his head. Harry_Potter’s eyes wandered past him to where professor Albus_Dumbledore, the headmaster, sat watching the sorting from the staff table, his long silver beard and half-moon glasses shining brightly in the candlelight. several seats along, Harry_Potter saw Gilderoy_Lockhart, dressed in robes of aquamarine. and there at the end was Rubeus_Hagrid, huge and hairy, drinking deeply from his goblet. ‘hang on …’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley ‘there’s an empty chair at the staff table … where’s snape?’ professor Severus_Snape was Harry_Potter’s least favourite teacher. Harry_Potter also happened to be snape’s least favourite student. cruel, sarcastic and disliked by everybody except the students from his own house (slytherin), snape taught potions. ‘maybe he’s ill!’ said Ronald_Weasley Hope_Howellfully. ‘maybe he’s left,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘because he missed out on the defence against the dark arts job again!’ ‘or he might have been sacked!’ said Ronald_Weasley enthusiastically. ‘i mean, everyone hates him –’ ‘or maybe,’ said a very cold voice right behind them, ‘he’s waiting to hear why you two didn’t arrive on the school train.’ Harry_Potter spun around. there, his black robes rippling in a cold breeze, stood Severus_Snape. he was a thin man with sallow skin, a hooked nose and greasy, shoulder-length black hair, and at this moment, he was smiling in a way that told Harry_Potter he and Ronald_Weasley were in very deep trouble. ‘follow me,’ said snape. not daring even to look at each other, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley followed snape up the steps into the vast, echoing entrance hall, which was lit with flaming torches. a delicious smell of food was wafting from the great hall, but snape led them away from the warmth and light, down a narrow stone staircase that led into the Mundungus_Fletchereons. ‘in!’ he said, opening a door halfway down the cold passageway and pointing. they entered snape’s office, shivering. the shadowy walls were lined with shelves of large glass jars, in which floated all manner of revolting things Harry_Potter didn’t really want to know the name of at the moment. the fireplace was dark and empty. snape closed the door and turned to look at them. ‘so,’ he said softly, ‘the train isn’t good enough for the famous Harry_Potter and his faithful sidekick weasley. wanted to arrive with a bang, did we, boys?’ ‘no, sir, it was the barrier at king’s cross, it –’ ‘silence!’ said snape coldly. ‘what have you done with the car?’ Ronald_Weasley gulped. this wasn’t the first time snape had given Harry_Potter the impression of being able to read minds. but a moment later, he understood, as snape unrolled today’s issue of the evening prophet. ‘you were seen,’ he hissed, showing them the headline: flying ford anglia mystifies muggles. he began to read aloud. ‘“two muggles in london, convinced they saw an old car flying over the post office tower … at noon in norfolk, mrs hetty bayliss, while hanging out her washing … mr angus fleet, of peebles, reported to police” … six or seven muggles in all. i believe your father works in the misuse of muggle artefacts office?’ he said, looking up at Ronald_Weasley and smiling still more nastily. ‘dear, dear … his own son …’ Harry_Potter felt as though he’d just been walloped in the stomach by one of the mad tree’s larger branches. if anyone found out Arthur_Weasley had bewitched the car … he hadn’t thought of that … ‘i noticed, in my search of the park, that considerable damage seems to have been done to a very valuable whomping willow,’ snape went on. ‘that tree did more damage to us than we –’ Ronald_Weasley blurted out. ‘silence!’ snapped snape again. ‘most unfortunately, you are not in my house and the decision to expel you does not rest with me. i shall go and fetch the people who do have that happy power. you will wait here.’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley stared at each other, white-faced. Harry_Potter didn’t feel hungry any more. he now felt extremely sick. he tried not to look at a large, slimy something suspended in green liquid on a shelf behind snape’s desk. if snape had gone to fetch professor Minerva_McGonagall, head of gryffindor house, they were hardly any better off. she might be fairer than snape, but she was still extremely strict. ten minutes later, snape returned, and sure enough it was professor Minerva_McGonagall who accompanied him. Harry_Potter had seen professor Minerva_McGonagall angry on several occasions, but either he had forgotten just how thin her mouth could go, or he had never seen her this angry before. she raised her wand the moment she entered. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley both flinched, but she merely pointed it at the empty fireplace, where flames suddenly erupted. ‘sit,’ she said, and they both backed into chairs by the fire. ‘explain,’ she said, her glasses glinting ominously. Ronald_Weasley launched into the story, starting with the barrier at the station refusing to let them through. ‘… so we had no choice, professor, we couldn’t get on the train.’ ‘why didn’t you send us a letter by owl? i believe you have an owl?’ professor Minerva_McGonagall said coldly to Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter gaped at her. now she said it, that seemed the obvious thing to have done. ‘i – i didn’t think –’ ‘that,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, ‘is obvious.’ there was a knock on the office door and snape, now looking happier than ever, opened it. there stood the headmaster, professor Albus_Dumbledore. Harry_Potter’s whole body went numb. Albus_Dumbledore was looking unusually grave. he stared down his very crooked nose at them and Harry_Potter suddenly found himself wishing he and Ronald_Weasley were still being beaten up by the whomping willow. there was a long silence. then Albus_Dumbledore said, ‘please explain why you did this.’ it would have been better  if he had shouted. Harry_Potter hated  the disappointment in his voice. for some reason, he was unable to look Albus_Dumbledore in the eyes, and spoke instead to his knees. he told Albus_Dumbledore everything except that Arthur_Weasley owned the bewitched car, making it sound as though he and Ronald_Weasley had happened to find a flying car parked outside the station. he knew Albus_Dumbledore would see through this at once, but Albus_Dumbledore asked no questions about the car. when Harry_Potter had finished, he merely continued to peer at them through his spectacles. ‘we’ll go and get our stuff,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a Hope_Howellless sort of voice. ‘what are you talking about, weasley?’ barked professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘well, you’re expelling us, aren’t you?’ said Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter looked quickly at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘not today, Arthur_Weasley,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘but i must impress upon both of you the seriousness of what you have done. i will be writing to both your families tonight. i must also warn you that if you do anything like this again, i will have no choice but to expel you.’ snape looked as though christmas had been cancelled. he cleared his throat and said, ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore, these boys have flouted the decree for the restriction of underage wizardry, caused serious damage to an old and valuable tree … surely acts of this nature …’ ‘it will be for professor Minerva_McGonagall to decide on these boys’ punishments, Severus_Snape,’ said Albus_Dumbledore calmly. ‘they are in her house and are therefore her responsibility.’ he turned to professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘i must go back to the feast, Minerva_McGonagall, i’ve got to give out a few notices. come, Severus_Snape, there’s a delicious-looking custard tart i want to sample.’ snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley as he allowed himself to be swept out of his office, leaving them alone with professor Minerva_McGonagall, who was still eyeing them like a wrathful eagle. ‘you’d better get along to the hospital wing, weasley, you’re bleeding.’ ‘not much,’ said Ronald_Weasley hastily wiping the cut over his eye with his sleeve. ‘professor, i wanted to watch my sister being sorted –’ ‘the sorting ceremony is over,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘your sister is also in gryffindor.’ ‘oh, good,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘and speaking of gryffindor –’ professor Minerva_McGonagall said sharply, but Harry_Potter cut in: ‘professor, when we took the car, term hadn’t started, so – so gryffindor shouldn’t really have points taken from it, should it?’ he finished, watching her anxiously. professor Minerva_McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but he was sure she had almost smiled. her mouth looked less thin, anyway. ‘i will not take any points from gryffindor,’ she said, and Harry_Potter’s heart lightened considerably. ‘but you will both get a detention.’ it was better than Harry_Potter had expected. as for Albus_Dumbledore’s writing to Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley, that was nothing. Harry_Potter knew perfectly well they’d just be disappointed that the whomping willow hadn’t squashed him flat. professor Minerva_McGonagall raised her wand again and pointed it at snape’s desk. a large plate of sandwiches, two silver goblets and a jug of iced pumpkin juice appeared with a pop. ‘you will eat in here and then go straight up to your dormitory,’ she said. ‘i must also return to the feast.’ when the door had closed behind her, Ronald_Weasley let out a long, low whistle. ‘i thought we’d had it,’ he said, grabbing a sandwich. ‘so did i,’ said Harry_Potter, taking one too. ‘can you believe our luck, though?’ said Ronald_Weasley thickly through a mouthful of chicken and ham. ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley must’ve flown that car five or six times and no muggle ever saw them.’ he swallowed and took another huge bite. ‘why couldn’t we get through the barrier?’ Harry_Potter shrugged. ‘we’ll have to watch our step from now on, though,’ he said, taking a grateful swig of pumpkin juice. ‘wish we could’ve gone up to the feast …’ ‘she didn’t want us showing off,’ said Ronald_Weasley sagely. ‘doesn’t want people to think it’s clever, arriving by flying car.’ when they had eaten as many sandwiches as they could (the plate kept re- filling itself) they rose and left the office, treading the familiar path to gryffindor tower. the castle was quiet; it seemed that the feast was over. they walked past muttering portraits and creaking suits of armour, and climbed narrow flights of stone stairs, until at last they reached the passage where the secret entrance to gryffindor tower was hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress. ‘password?’ she said, as they approached. ‘er –’ said Harry_Potter. they didn’t know the new year’s password, not having met a gryffindor prefect yet, but help came almost immediately; they heard hurrying feet behind them and turned to see Hermione_Granger dashing towards them. ‘there you are! where have you been? the most ridiculous rumours – someone said you’d been expelled for crashing a flying car.’ ‘well, we haven’t been expelled,’ Harry_Potter assured her. ‘you’re not telling me you did fly here?’ said Hermione_Granger, sounding almost as severe as professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘skip the lecture,’ said Ronald_Weasley impatiently, ‘and tell us the new password.’ ‘it’s “wattlebird”,’ said Hermione_Granger impatiently, ‘but that’s not the point –’ her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of the Fat_Lady swung open and there was a sudden storm of clapping. it looked as though the whole of gryffindor house was still awake, packed into the circular common room, standing on the lop-sided tables and squashy armchairs, waiting for them to arrive. arms reached through the portrait hole to pull Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley inside, leaving Hermione_Granger to scramble in after them. ‘brilliant!’ yelled Lee_Jordan. ‘inspired! what an entrance! flying a car right into the whomping willow, people’ll be talking about that one for years!’ ‘good on you,’ said a fifth-year Harry_Potter had never spoken to; someone was patting him on the back as though he’d just won a marathon. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said together, ‘why couldn’t you’ve called us back, eh?’ Ronald_Weasley was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly, but Harry_Potter could see one person who didn’t look happy at all. Percy_Weasley was visible over the heads of some excited first-years, and he seemed to be trying to get near enough to start telling them off. Harry_Potter nudged Ronald_Weasley in the ribs and nodded in Percy_Weasley’s direction. Ronald_Weasley got the point at once. ‘got to get upstairs – bit tired,’ he said, and the two of them started pushing their way towards the door on the other side of the room, which led to a spiral staircase and the dormitories. ‘night,’ Harry_Potter called back to Hermione_Granger, who was wearing a scowl just like Percy_Weasley’s. they managed to get to the other side of the common room, still having their backs slapped, and gained the peace of the staircase. they hurried up it, right to the top, and at last reached the door of their old dormitory, which now had a sign on it saying ‘second-years’. they entered the familiar, circular room, with its five four-posters hung with red velvet and its high, narrow windows. their trunks had been brought up for them and placed at the ends of their beds. Ronald_Weasley grinned guiltily at Harry_Potter. ‘i know i shouldn’t’ve enjoyed that or anything, but –’ the dormitory door flew open and in came the other second-year gryffindor boys, Seamus_Finnigan, Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom. ‘unbelievable!’ beamed Seamus_Finnigan. ‘cool,’ said Dean_Thomas. ‘amazing,’ said Neville_Longbottom, awestruck. Harry_Potter couldn’t help it. he grinned, too. 