– chapter one – owl post Harry_Potter was a highly unusual boy in many ways. for one thing, he hated the summer holidays more than any other time of year. for another, he really wanted to do his homework, but was forCedric_Diggory to do it in secret, in the dead of night. and he also happened to be a wizard. it was nearly midnight, and he was lying on his front in bed, the blankets drawn right over his head like a tent, a torch in one hand and a large leather- bound book (a history of magic, by Bathilda_Bagshot) propped open against the pillow. Harry_Potter moved the tip of his eagle-feather quill down the page, frowning as he looked for something that would help him write his essay, ‘witch-burning in the fourteenth century was completely pointless – discuss’. the quill paused at the top of a likely-looking paragraph. Harry_Potter pushed his round glasses up his nose, moved his torch closer to the book and read: non-magic people (more commonly known as muggles) were particularly afraid of magic in medieval times, but not very good at recognising it. on the rare occasion that they did catch a real witch or wizard, burning had no effect whatsoever. the witch or wizard would perform a basic flame-freezing charm and then pretend to shriek with pain while enjoying a gentle, tickling sensation. indeed, wendelin the weird enjoyed being burnt so much that she allowed herself to be caught no fewer than forty-seven times in various disguises. Harry_Potter put his quill between his teeth and reached underneath his pillow for his ink bottle and a roll of parchment. slowly and very carefully he unscrewed the ink bottle, dipped his quill into it and began to write, pausing every now and then to listen, because if any of Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley heard the scratching of his quill on their way to the bathroom, he’d probably find himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for the rest of the summer. the dursley family of number four, privet drive, was the reason that Harry_Potter      never enjoyed his summer holidays. uncle Vernon_Dursley, aunt Petunia_Dursley and their son, Dudley_Dursley, were Harry_Potter’s only living relatives. they were muggles, and they had a very medieval attitude towards magic. Harry_Potter’s dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never mentioned under Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’ roof. for years, aunt Petunia_Dursley and uncle Vernon_Dursley had Hope_Howelld that if they kept Harry_Potter as downtrodden as possible, they would be able to squash the magic out of him. to their fury, they had been unsuccessful, and now lived in terror of anyone finding out that Harry_Potter had spent most of the last two years at hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry. the most Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley could do these days was to lock away Harry_Potter’s spellbooks, wand, cauldron and broomstick at the start of the summer holidays, and forbid him to talk to the neighbours. this separation from his spellbooks had been a real problem for Harry_Potter, because his teachers at hogwarts had given him a lot of holiday work. one of the essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking potions, was for Harry_Potter’s least favourite teacher, professor snape, who would be delighted to have an excuse to give Harry_Potter detention for a month. Harry_Potter had therefore seized his chance in the first week of the holidays. while uncle Vernon_Dursley, aunt Petunia_Dursley and Dudley_Dursley had gone out into the front garden to admire uncle Vernon_Dursley’s new company car (in very loud voices, so that the rest of the street would notice it too), Harry_Potter had crept downstairs, picked the lock on the cupboard under the stairs, grabbed some of his books and hidden them in his bedroom. as long as he didn’t leave spots of ink on the sheets, Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley need never know that he was studying magic by night. Harry_Potter was keen to avoid trouble with his aunt and uncle at the moment, as they were already in a bad mood with him, all because he’d received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one week into the school holidays. Ronald_Weasley weasley, who was one of Harry_Potter’s best friends at hogwarts, came from a whole family of wizards. this meant that he knew a lot of things Harry_Potter didn’t, but had never used a telephone before. most unluckily, it had been uncle Vernon_Dursley who had answered the call. ‘Vernon_Dursley speaking.’ Harry_Potter, who happened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard ron’s voice answer. ‘hello? hello? can you hear me? i – want – to – talk – to – Harry_Potter – potter!’ Ronald_Weasley was yelling so loudly that uncle Vernon_Dursley jumped and held the receiver a foot away from his ear, staring at it with an expression of mingled fury and alarm. ‘who is this?’ he roared in the direction of the mouthpiece. ‘who are you?’ ‘ron – weasley!’ Ronald_Weasley bellowed back, as though he and uncle Vernon_Dursley were speaking from opposite ends of a football pitch. ‘i’m – a – friend – of – Harry_Potter’s – from – school –’ uncle Vernon_Dursley’s small eyes swivelled around to Harry_Potter, who was rooted to the spot. ‘there is no Harry_Potter here!’ he roared, now holding the receiver at arm’s length, as though frightened it might explode. ‘i don’t know what school you’re talking about! never contact me again! don’t you come near my family!’ and he threw the receiver back onto the telephone as if dropping a poisonous spider. the row that had followed had been one of the worst ever. ‘how dare you give this number to people like – people like you!’ uncle Vernon_Dursley had roared, spraying Harry_Potter with spit. Ronald_Weasley obviously realised that he’d got Harry_Potter into trouble, because he hadn’t called again. Harry_Potter’s other best friend from hogwarts, Hermione_Granger, hadn’t been in touch either. Harry_Potter suspected that Ronald_Weasley had warned Hermione_Granger not to call, which was a pity, because Hermione_Granger, the cleverest witch in Harry_Potter’s year, had muggle parents, knew perfectly well how to use a telephone, and would probably have had enough sense not to say that she went to hogwarts. so Harry_Potter had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long weeks, and this summer was turning out to be almost as bad as the last one. there was just one, very small improvement: after swearing that he wouldn’t use her to send letters to any of his friends, Harry_Potter had been allowed to let his owl, Hedwig, out at night. uncle Vernon_Dursley had given in because of the racket Hedwig made if she was locked in her cage all the time. Harry_Potter finished writing about wendelin the weird and paused to listen again. the silence in the dark house was broken only by the distant, grunting snores of his enormous cousin, Dudley_Dursley. it must be very late. Harry_Potter’s eyes were itching with tiredness. perhaps he’d finish this essay tomorrow night … he replaCedric_Diggory the top of the ink bottle, pulled an old pillowcase from under his bed, put the torch, a history of magic, his essay, quill and ink inside it, got out of bed and hid the lot under a loose floorboard under his bed. then he stood up, stretched, and checked the time on the luminous alarm clock on his bedside table. it was one o’clock in the morning. Harry_Potter’s stomach gave a funny jolt. he had been thirteen years old, without realising it, for a whole hour. yet another unusual thing about Harry_Potter was how little he looked forward to his birthdays. he had never received a birthday card in his life. Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had no reason to suppose they would remember this one. Harry_Potter walked across the dark room, past Hedwig’s large, empty cage, to the open window. he leant on the sill, the cool night air pleasant on his face after a long time under the blankets. Hedwig had been absent for two nights now. Harry_Potter wasn’t worried about her – she’d been gone this long before – but he Hope_Howelld she’d be back soon. she was the only living creature in this house who didn’t flinch at the sight of him. Harry_Potter, though still rather small and skinny for his age, had grown a few inches over the last year. his jet-black hair, however, was just as it always had been: stubbornly untidy, whatever he did to it. the eyes behind his glasses were bright green, and on his forehead, clearly visible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of Harry_Potter. of all the unusual things about Harry_Potter, this scar was the most extraordinary of all. it was not, as Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had pretended for ten years, a souvenir of the car crash that had killed Harry_Potter’s parents, because Lily_J._Potter and James_Potter_I potter had not died in a car crash. they had been murdered, murdered by the most feared dark wizard for a hundred years, Tom_Riddle. Harry_Potter had escaped from the same attack with nothing more than a scar on his forehead, when voldemort’s curse, instead of killing him, had rebounded upon its originator. barely alive, voldemort had fled … but Harry_Potter had come face to face with him since at hogwarts. remembering their last meeting as he stood at the dark window, Harry_Potter had to admit he was lucky even to have reached his thirteenth birthday. he scanned the starry sky for a sign of Hedwig, perhaps soaring back to him with a dead mouse dangling from her beak, expecting praise. gazing absently over the rooftops, it was a few seconds before Harry_Potter realised what he was seeing. silhouetted against the golden moon, and growing larger every moment, was a large, strangely lop-sided creature, and it was flapping in Harry_Potter’s direction. he stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. for a split second, he hesitated, his hand on the window-latch, wondering whether to slam it shut, but then the bizarre creature soared over one of the streetlamps of privet drive, and Harry_Potter, realising what it was, leapt aside. through the window soared three owls, two of them holding up the third, which appeared to be unconscious. they landed with a soft flump on Harry_Potter’s bed, and the middle owl, which was large and grey, keeled right over and lay motionless. there was a large package tied to its legs. Harry_Potter recognised the unconscious owl at once – his name was Errol, and he belonged to the weasley family. Harry_Potter dashed to the bed at once, untied the cords around Errol’s legs, took off the parcel and then carried Errol to Hedwig’s cage. Errol opened one bleary eye, gave a feeble hoot of thanks, and began to gulp some water. Harry_Potter turned back to the remaining owls. one of them, the large snowy female, was his own Hedwig. she, too, was carrying a parcel, and looked extremely pleased with herself. she gave Harry_Potter an affectionate nip with her beak as he removed her burden, then flew across the room to join Errol. Harry_Potter didn’t recognise the third owl, a handsome tawny one, but he knew at once where it had come from, because in addition to a third parcel, it was carrying a letter bearing the hogwarts crest. when Harry_Potter relieved this owl of its post it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched its wings and took off through the window into the night. Harry_Potter sat down on his bed, grabbed Errol’s package, ripped off the brown paper and discovered a present wrapped in gold, and his first ever birthday card. fingers trembling slightly, he opened the envelope. two pieces of paper fell out – a letter and a newspaper cutting. the cutting had clearly come out of the wizarding newspaper, the daily prophet, because the people in the black and white picture were moving. Harry_Potter picked up the cutting, smoothed it out and read: ministry of magic employee scoops grand prize Arthur_Weasley, head of the misuse of muggle artefacts office at the ministry of magic, has won the annual daily prophet grand prize galleon draw. a delighted Arthur_Weasley told the daily prophet, ‘we will be spending the gold on a summer holiday in egypt, where our eldest son, bill, works as a curse breaker for Gringotts_Head_Goblin wizarding bank.’ the weasley family will be spending a month in egypt, returning for the start of the new school year at hogwarts, which five of the weasley children currently attend. Harry_Potter scanned the moving photograph, and a grin spread across his face as he saw all nine of the weasleys waving furiously at him, standing in front of a   large pyramid. plump little Molly_Weasley, tall, balding Arthur_Weasley, six sons and one daughter, all (though the black and white picture didn’t show it) with flaming red hair. right in the middle of the picture was Ronald_Weasley tall and gangling, with his pet rat scabbers on his shoulder and his arm around his little sister, Ginevra_Weasley. Harry_Potter couldn’t think of anyone who deserved to win a large pile of gold more than the weasleys, who were very nice and extremely poor. he picked up ron’s letter and unfolded it. dear Harry_Potter, happy birthday! look, i’m really sorry about that telephone call. i Hope_Howell the muggles didn’t give you a hard time. i asked dad, and he reckons i shouldn’t have shouted. it’s brilliant here in egypt. bill’s taken us round all the tombs and you wouldn’t believe the curses those old egyptian wizards put on them. mum wouldn’t let Ginevra_Weasley come in the last one. there were all these mutant skeletons in there, of muggles who’d broken in and grown extra heads and stuff. i couldn’t believe it when dad won the daily prophet draw. seven hundred galleons! most of it’s gone on this holiday, but they’re going to buy me a new wand for next year. Harry_Potter remembered only too well the occasion when ron’s old wand had snapped. it had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to hogwarts had crashed into a tree in the school grounds. we’ll be back about a week before term starts and we’ll be going up to london to get my wand and our new books. any chance of meeting you there? don’t let the muggles get you down! try and come to london, Ronald_Weasley ps: Percy_Weasley’s head boy. he got the letter last week. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory back at the photograph. Percy_Weasley, who was in his seventh and final      year at hogwarts, was looking particularly smug. he had pinned his head boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his neat hair, his horn-rimmed glasses flashing in the egyptian sun. Harry_Potter now turned to his present and unwrapped it. inside was what looked like a miniature glass spinning top. there was another note from Ronald_Weasley beneath it. Harry_Potter – this is a pocket sneakoscope. if there’s someone untrustworthy around, it’s supposed to light up and spin. William_Weasley says it’s rubbish sold for wizard tourists and isn’t reliable, because it kept lighting up at dinner last night. but he didn’t realise Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had put beetles in his soup. bye – Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter put the pocket sneakoscope on his bedside table, where it stood quite still, balanCedric_Diggory on its point, reflecting the luminous hands of his clock. he looked at it happily for a few seconds, then picked up the parcel Hedwig had brought. inside this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card and a letter, this time from Hermione_Granger. dear Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your uncle Vernon_Dursley. i do Hope_Howell you’re all right. i’m on holiday in france at the moment and i didn’t know how i was going to send this to you – what if they’d opened it at customs? – but then Hedwig turned up! i think she wanted to make sure you got something for your birthday for a change. i bought your present by owl- order; there was an advertisement in the daily prophet (i’ve been getting it delivered, it’s so good to keep up with what’s going on in the wizarding world). did you see that picture of Ronald_Weasley and his family a week ago? i bet he’s learning loads, i’m really jealous – the ancient egyptian wizards were fascinating. there’s some interesting local history of witchcraft here, too. i’ve re- written my whole history of magic essay to include some of the things i’ve found out. i Hope_Howell it’s not too long, it’s two rolls of parchment more than professor binns asked for. Ronald_Weasley says he’s going to be in london in the last week of the holidays.    can you make it? will your aunt and uncle let you come? i really Hope_Howell you can. if not, i’ll see you on the hogwarts express on september the first! love from Hermione_Granger p.s. Ronald_Weasley says Percy_Weasley’s head boy. i’ll bet Percy_Weasley’s really pleased. Ronald_Weasley doesn’t seem too happy about it. Harry_Potter laughed again as he put Hermione_Granger’s letter aside and picked up her present. it was very heavy. knowing Hermione_Granger, he was sure it would be a large book full of very difficult spells – but it wasn’t. his heart gave a huge bound as he ripped back the paper and saw a sleek black leather case with silver words stamped across it: broomstick servicing kit. ‘wow, Hermione_Granger!’ Harry_Potter whispered, unzipping the case to look inside. there was a large jar of fleetwood’s high-finish handle polish, a pair of gleaming silver tail-twig clippers, a tiny brass compass to clip onto your broom for long journeys, and a handbook of do-it-yourself broomcare. apart from his friends, the thing that Harry_Potter missed most about hogwarts was quidditch, the most popular sport in the magical world – highly dangerous, very exciting and played on broomsticks. Harry_Potter happened to be a very good quidditch player; he had been the youngest person in a century to be picked for one of the hogwarts house teams. one of Harry_Potter’s most prized possessions was his nimbus two thousand racing broom. Harry_Potter put the leather case aside and picked up his last parcel. he recognised the untidy scrawl on the brown paper at once: this was from Rubeus_Hagrid, the hogwarts gamekeeper. he tore off the top layer of paper and glimpsed something green and leathery, but before he could unwrap it properly, the parcel gave a strange quiver, and whatever was inside it snapped loudly – as though it had jaws. Harry_Potter froze. he knew that Rubeus_Hagrid would never send him anything dangerous on purpose, but then, Rubeus_Hagrid didn’t have a normal person’s view of what was dangerous. Rubeus_Hagrid had been known to befriend giant spiders, buy vicious, three-headed dogs from men in pubs and sneak illegal dragon eggs into his cabin. Harry_Potter poked the parcel nervously. it snapped loudly again. Harry_Potter reached for the lamp on his bedside table, gripped it firmly in one hand and raised it over his head, ready to strike. then he seized the rest of the wrapping paper in   his other hand and pulled. and out fell – a book. Harry_Potter just had time to register its handsome green cover, emblazoned with the golden title, the monster book of monsters, before it flipped onto its edge and scuttled sideways along the bed like some weird crab. ‘uh oh,’ Harry_Potter muttered. the book toppled off the bed with a loud clunk and shuffled rapidly across the room. Harry_Potter followed it stealthily. the book was hiding in the dark space under his desk. praying that Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley were still fast asleep, Harry_Potter got down on his hands and knees and reached towards it. ‘ouch!’ the book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped past him, still scuttling on its covers. Harry_Potter scrambled around, threw himself forward and managed to flatten it. uncle Vernon_Dursley gave a loud, sleepy grunt in the room next door. Hedwig and Errol watched interestedly as Harry_Potter clamped the struggling book tightly in his arms, hurried to his chest of drawers and pulled out a belt, which he buckled tightly around it. the monster book shuddered angrily, but could no longer flap and snap, so Harry_Potter threw it down on the bed and reached for Rubeus_Hagrid’s card. dear Harry_Potter, happy birthday! think you might find this useful for next year. won’t say no more here. tell you when i see you. Hope_Howell the muggles are treating you right. all the best, Rubeus_Hagrid it struck Harry_Potter as ominous that Rubeus_Hagrid thought a biting book would come in useful, but he put up Rubeus_Hagrid’s card next to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s, grinning more broadly than ever. now there was only the letter from hogwarts left. noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Harry_Potter slit open the envelope, pulled out the first page of parchment within and read: dear mr potter, please note that the new school year will begin on september the first.    the hogwarts express will leave from king’s cross station, platform nine and three-quarters, at eleven o’clock. third-years are permitted to visit the village of hogsmeade at certain weekends. please give the enclosed permission form to your parent or guardian to sign. a list of books for next year is enclosed. yours sincerely, professor m. Minerva_McGonagall deputy headmistress Harry_Potter pulled out the hogsmeade permission form and looked at it, no longer grinning. it would be wonderful to visit hogsmeade at weekends; he knew it was an entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot there. but how on earth was he going to persuade uncle Vernon_Dursley or aunt Petunia_Dursley to sign the form? he looked over at the alarm clock. it was now two o’clock in the morning. deciding that he’d worry about the hogsmeade form when he woke up, Harry_Potter got back into bed and reached up to cross off another day on the chart he’d made for himself, counting down the days left until his return to hogwarts. then he took off his glasses and lay down, eyes open, facing his three birthday cards. extremely unusual though he was, at that moment Harry_Potter felt just like everyone else: glad, for the first time in his life, that it was his birthday.  