– chapter fourteen – snape’s grudge no one in gryffindor tower slept that night. they knew that the castle was being searched again, and the whole house stayed awake in the common room, waiting to hear whether black had been caught. professor Minerva_McGonagall came back at dawn, to tell them that he had again escaped. everywhere they went next day they saw signs of tighter security; professor flitwick could be seen teaching the front doors to recognise a large picture of Sirius_Black black; filch was suddenly bustling up and down the corridors, boarding up everything from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. sir Cadogan had been sacked. his portrait had been taken back to its lonely landing on the seventh floor, and the Fat_Lady was back. she had been expertly restored, but was still extremely nervous, and had only agreed to return to her job on condition that she was given extra protection. a bunch of surly security trolls had been hired to guard her. they paced the corridor in a menacing group, talking in grunts and comparing the size of their clubs. Harry_Potter couldn’t help noticing that the statue of the one-eyed witch on the third floor remained unguarded and unblocked. it seemed that Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had been right in thinking that they – and now Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger – were the only ones who knew about the hidden passageway within it. ‘d’you reckon we should tell someone?’ Harry_Potter asked ron. ‘we know he’s not coming in through honeydukes,’ saidRonald_Weasleydismissively. ‘we’d’ve heard if the shop had been broken into.’ Harry_Potter was gladRonald_Weasleytook this view. if the one-eyed witch was boarded up too, he would never be able to go into hogsmeade again.Ronald_Weasleyhad become an inStanley_Shunpiket celebrity. for the first time in his life, people were paying more attention to him than to Harry_Potter, and it was clear thatRonald_Weasleywas rather enjoying the experience. though still severely shaken by the night’s events, he was happy to tell anyone who asked, what had happened, with a wealth of detail. ‘… i was asleep, and i heard this ripping noise, and i thought it was in my    dream, you know? but then there was this draught … i woke up and one side of the hangings on my bed had been pulled down … i rolled over … and i saw him Stanley_Shunpikeding over me … like a skeleton, with loads of filthy hair … holding this great long knife, must’ve been twelve inches … and he looked at me, and i looked at him, and then i yelled, and he scarpered. ‘why, though?’Ronald_Weasleyadded to Harry_Potter, as the group of second-year girls who had been listening to his chilling tale departed. ‘why did he scarper?’ Harry_Potter had been wondering the same thing. why had black, having got the wrong bed, not silencedRonald_Weasleyand proceeded to Harry_Potter? black had proved twelve years ago that he didn’t mind murdering innocent people, and this time he had been facing five unarmed boys, four of whom were asleep. ‘he must’ve known he’d have a job getting back out of the castle once you’d yelled and woken people up,’ said Harry_Potter thoughtfully. ‘he’d’ve had to kill the whole house to get back through the portrait hole … then he would’ve met the teachers …’ Neville_Longbottom was in total disgrace. professor Minerva_McGonagall was so furious with him she had banned him from all future hogsmeade visits, given him a detention and forbidden anyone to give him the password into the tower. poor Neville_Longbottom was forced to wait outside the common room every night for somebody to let him in, while the security trolls leered unpleasantly at him. none of these punishments, however, came close to matching the one his grandmother had in store for him. two days after black’s break-in, she sent Neville_Longbottom the very worst thing a hogwarts student could receive over breakfast – a howler. the school owls swooped into the great hall, carrying the post as usual, and Neville_Longbottom choked as a huge barn owl landed in front of him, a scarlet envelope clutched in its beak. Harry_Potter and ron, who were sitting opposite him, recognised the letter as a howler at once –Ronald_Weasleyhad got one from his mother the year before. ‘run for it, Neville_Longbottom,’Ronald_Weasleyadvised. Neville_Longbottom didn’t need telling twice. he seized the envelope and, holding it before him like a bomb, sprinted out of the hall, while the slytherin table exploded with laughter at the sight of him. they heard the howler go off in the entrance hall – Neville_Longbottom’s grandmother’s voice, Magic_goblinally magnified to a hundred times its usual volume, shrieking about how he had brought shame on the whole family. Harry_Potter was too busy feeling sorry for Neville_Longbottom to notice immediately that he had a letter, too. Hedwig got his attention by nipping him sharply on the wrist. ‘ouch! oh – thanks, Hedwig …’ Harry_Potter tore open the envelope while Hedwig helped herself to some of Neville_Longbottom’s cornflakes. the note inside said: dear Harry_Potter and ron, how about having tea with me this evening round six? i’ll come and collect you from the castle. wait for me in the entrance hall, you’re not allowed out on your own. cheers, Rubeus_Hagrid ‘he probably wants to hear all about black!’ said ron. so at six o’clock that evening, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyleft gryffindor tower, passed the security trolls at a run, and headed down to the entrance hall. Rubeus_Hagrid was already waiting for them. ‘all right, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ said ron. ‘s’pose you want to hear about saturday night, do you?’ ‘i’ve already heard all abou’ it,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, opening the front doors and leading them outside. ‘oh,’ said ron, looking slightly put out. the first thing they saw on entering Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin was Buckbeak, who was stretched out on top of Rubeus_Hagrid’s patchwork quilt, his enormous wings folded tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead ferrets. averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, Harry_Potter saw a gigantic, hairy brown suit and a very horrible yellow and orange tie hanging from the top of Rubeus_Hagrid’s wardrobe door. ‘what are they for, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Buckbeak’s case against the committee fer the disposal o’ dangerous creatures,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘this friday. him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter london together. i’ve booked two beds on the Knight_with_an_arrow_sticking_out_of_his_forehead bus …’ Harry_Potter felt a nasty pang of guilt. he had completely forgotten that Buckbeak’s trial was so near, and judging by the uneasy look on ron’s face, he had, too. they had also forgotten their promise about helping him prepare Buckbeak’s defence; the arrival of the firebolt had driven it clean out of their minds. Rubeus_Hagrid poured them tea and offered them a plate of bath buns, but they   knew better than to accept; they had had too much experience of Rubeus_Hagrid’s Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning. ‘i got somethin’ ter discuss with you two,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, sitting himself between them and looking uncharacteristically serious. ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Hermione_Granger,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘what about her?’ said ron. ‘she’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. she’s bin comin’ down ter visit me a lot since chris’mas. bin feelin’ lonely. firs’ yeh weren’ talking to her because o’ the firebolt, now yer not talkin’ to her because her cat –’ ‘– ate scabbers!’Ronald_Weasleyinterjected angrily. ‘because her cat acted like all cats do,’ Rubeus_Hagrid continued doggedly. ‘she’s cried a fair few times, yeh know. goin’ through a rough time at the moment. bitten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the work she’s tryin’ ter do. still found time ter help me with Buckbeak’s case, mind … she’s found some really good stuff fer me … reckon he’ll Stanley_Shunpiked a good chance now …’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, we should’ve helped as well – sorry –’ Harry_Potter began awkwardly. ‘i’m not blamin’ yeh!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, waving Harry_Potter’s apology aside. ‘gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be gettin’ on with, i’ve seen yeh practisin’ quidditch ev’ry hour o’ the day an’ night – but i gotta tell yeh, i thought you two’d value yer friend more’n broomsticks or rats. tha’s all.’ Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyexchanged uncomfortable looks. ‘really upset, she was, when black nearly stabbed yeh, ron. she’s got her heart in the right place, Hermione_Granger has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her –’ ‘if she’d just get rid of that cat, i’d speak to her again!’Ronald_Weasleysaid angrily. ‘but she’s still sticking up for it! it’s a maniac, and she won’t hear a word against it!’ ‘ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid wisely. behind him, Buckbeak spat a few ferret bones onto Rubeus_Hagrid’s pillow. they spent the rest of their visit discussing gryffindor’s improved chances for the quidditch cup. at nine o’clock, Rubeus_Hagrid walked them back up to the castle. a large group of people was bunched around the noticeboard when they returned to the common room. ‘hogsmeade, next weekend!’ said ron, craning over the heads to read the new notice. ‘what d’you reckon?’ he added quietly to Harry_Potter, as they went to sit down. ‘well, filch hasn’t done anything about the passage into honeydukes …’ Harry_Potter said, even more quietly. ‘Harry_Potter!’ said a voice in his right ear. Harry_Potter started and looked around at Hermione_Granger, who was sitting at the table right behind them and clearing a space in the wall of books that had been hiding her. ‘Harry_Potter, if you go into hogsmeade again … i’ll tell professor Minerva_McGonagall about that map!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘can you hear someone talking, Harry_Potter?’ growled ron, not looking at Hermione_Granger. ‘ron, how can you let him go with you? after what Sirius_Black black nearly did to you! i mean it, i’ll tell –’ ‘so now you’re trying to get Harry_Potter expelled!’ saidRonald_Weasleyfuriously. ‘haven’t you done enough damage this year?’ Hermione_Granger opened her mouth to respond, but with a soft hiss, Crookshanks leapt onto her lap. Hermione_Granger took one frightened look at the expression on ron’s face, gathered Crookshanks up and hurried away towards the girls’ dormitories. ‘so how about it?’Ronald_Weasleysaid to Harry_Potter, as though there had been no interruption. ‘come on, last time we went you didn’t see anything. you haven’t even been inside zonko’s yet!’ Harry_Potter looked around to check that Hermione_Granger was well out of earshot. ‘ok,’ he said. ‘but i’m taking the invisibility cloak this time.’ * on saturday morning, Harry_Potter packed his invisibility cloak in his bag, slipped the marauder’s map into his pocket and went down to breakfast with everyone else. Hermione_Granger kept shooting suspicious looks down the table at him, but he avoided her eye, and was careful to let her see him walking back up the marble staircase in the entrance hall as everybody else proceeded to the front doors. ‘bye!’ Harry_Potter called to ron. ‘see you when you get back!’Ronald_Weasleygrinned and winked. Harry_Potter hurried up to the third floor, slipping the marauder’s map out of his pocket as he went. crouching behind the one-eyed witch, he smoothed it out. a tinyDotwas moving in his direction. Harry_Potter squinted at it. the minuscule writing next to it read ‘Neville_Longbottom longbottom’. Harry_Potter quickly pulled out his wand, muttered ‘dissendium!’ and shoved his bag into the statue, but before he could climb in himself, Neville_Longbottom came around the corner. ‘Harry_Potter! i forgot you weren’t going to hogsmeade either!’ ‘hi, Neville_Longbottom,’ said Harry_Potter, moving swiftly away from the statue and pushing the map back into his pocket. ‘what are you up to?’ ‘nothing,’ shrugged Neville_Longbottom. ‘want a game of exploding snap?’ ‘er – not now – i was going to go to the library and do that vampire essay for lupin –’ ‘i’ll come with you!’ said Neville_Longbottom brightly. ‘i haven’t done it either!’ ‘er – hang on – yeah, i forgot, i finished it last night!’ ‘brilliant, you can help me!’ said Neville_Longbottom, his round face anxious. ‘i don’t underStanley_Shunpiked that thing about the garlic at all – do they have to eat it, or –’ Neville_Longbottom broke off with a small gasp, looking over Harry_Potter’s shoulder. it was snape. Neville_Longbottom took a quick step behind Harry_Potter. ‘and what are you two doing here?’ said snape, coming to a halt and looking from one to the other. ‘an odd place to meet –’ to Harry_Potter’s immense disquiet, snape’s black eyes flicked to the doorways on either side of them, and then to the one-eyed witch. ‘we’re not – meeting here,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we just – met here.’ ‘indeed?’ said snape. ‘you have a habit of turning up in unexpected places, potter, and you are rarely there for no reason … i suggest the pair of you return to gryffindor tower, where you belong.’ Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom set off without another word. as they turned the corner, Harry_Potter looked back. snape was running one of his hands over the one-eyed witch’s head, examining it closely. Harry_Potter managed to shake Neville_Longbottom off at the Fat_Lady by telling him the password, then pretending he’d left his vampire essay in the library and doubling back. once out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out the map again and held it close to his nose. the third-floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Harry_Potter scanned the map carefully and saw, with a leap of relief, that the tinyDotlabelled ‘Severus_Snape snape’ was now back in its office. he sprinted back to the one-eyed witch, opened her hump, heaved himself inside and slid down to meet his bag at the bottom of the stone chute. he wiped the marauder’s map blank again, then set off at a run. * Harry_Potter, completely hidden beneath the invisibility cloak, emerged into the sunlight outside honeydukes and proddedRonald_Weasleyin the back. ‘it’s me,’ he muttered. ‘what kept you?’Ronald_Weasleyhissed. ‘snape was hanging around …’ they set off up the high street. ‘where are you?’Ronald_Weasleykept muttering out of the corner of his mouth. ‘are you still there? this feels weird …’ they went to the post office;Ronald_Weasleypretended to be checking the price of an owl to William_Weasley in egypt so that Harry_Potter could have a good look around. the owls sat hooting softly down at him, at least three hundred of them; from great greys right down to tiny little scops owls (‘local deliveries only’) which were so small they could have sat in the palm of Harry_Potter’s hand. then they visited zonko’s, which was so packed with students Harry_Potter had to exercise great care not to tread on anyone and cause a panic. there were jokes and tricks to fulfil even Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s wildest dreams; Harry_Potter gaveRonald_Weasleywhispered orders and passed him some gold from under the cloak. they left zonko’s with their money bags considerably lighter than they had been on entering, but their pockets bulging with Mundungus_Fletcherbombs, hiccough sweets, frog spawn soap and a nose-biting teacup apiece. the day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt like staying indoors, so they walked past the three broomsticks and climbed a slope to visit the shrieking shack, the most haunted dwelling in bRita_Skeeterin. it stood a little way above the rest of the village, and even in daylight was slightly creepy, with its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden. ‘even the hogwarts ghosts avoid it,’ said ron, as they leaned on the fence, looking up at it. ‘i asked Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington … he says he’s heard a very rough crowd live here. no one can get in. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut …’ Harry_Potter, feeling hot from their climb, was just considering taking off the cloak for a few minutes, when they heard voices nearby. someone was climbing towards the house from the other side of the hill; moments later, malfoy had appeared, followed closely by crabbe and Goyle. malfoy was speaking. ‘… should have an owl from father any time now. he had to go to the hearing to tell them about my arm … about how i couldn’t use it for three months …’ crabbe and Goyle sniggered. ‘i really wish i could hear that great hairy moron trying to defend himself … “there’s no ’arm in ’im, ’onest –” … that hippogriff’s as good as dead –’ malfoy suddenly caught sight of ron. his pale face split in a malevolent grin. ‘what are you doing, weasley?’ malfoy looked up at the crumbling house behind ron. ‘suppose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, weasley? dreaming about having your own bedroom? i heard your family all sleep in one room – is that true?’ Harry_Potter seized the back of ron’s robes to stop him leaping on malfoy. ‘leave him to me,’ he hissed in ron’s ear. the opportunity was too perfect to miss. Harry_Potter crept silently around behind malfoy, crabbe and Goyle, bent down and scooped a large handful of mud out of the path. ‘we were just discussing your friend Rubeus_Hagrid,’ malfoy said to ron. ‘just trying to imagine what he’s saying to the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures. d’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his hippogriff’s –’ splat! malfoy’s head jerked forwards as the mud hit him; his silver-blond hair was suddenly dripping in muck. ‘what the –?’Ronald_Weasleyhad to hold onto the fence to keep himself Stanley_Shunpikeding, he was laughing so hard. malfoy, crabbe and Goyle spun stupidly on the spot, staring wildly around, malfoy trying to wipe his hair clean. ‘what was that? who did that?’ ‘very haunted up here, isn’t it?’ said ron, with the air of one commenting on the weather. crabbe and Goyle were looking scared. their bulging muscles were no use against ghosts. malfoy was staring madly around at the deserted landscape. Harry_Potter sneaked along the path, where a particularly sloppy puddle yielded some foul-smelling, green sludge. splatter! crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle hopped furiously on the spot, trying to rub it out of his small, dull eyes. ‘it came from over there!’ said malfoy, wiping his face, and staring at a spot some six feet to the left of Harry_Potter. crabbe blundered forwards, his long arms outstretched like a zombie. Harry_Potter dodged around him, picked up a stick, and lobbed it at crabbe’s back. Harry_Potter doubled up with silent laughter as crabbe did a kind of pirouette in mid-air, trying to see who had thrown it. asRonald_Weasleywas the only person crabbe could see, it wasRonald_Weasleyhe started towards, but Harry_Potter stuck out his leg. crabbe stumbled – and his huge, flat foot caught the hem of Harry_Potter’s cloak. Harry_Potter felt a great tug, then the cloak slid off his face. for a split second, malfoy stared at him. ‘aaargh!’ he yelled, pointing at Harry_Potter’s head. then he turned tail and ran, at breakneck speed, back down the hill, crabbe and Goyle behind him. Harry_Potter tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was done. ‘Harry_Potter!’Ronald_Weasleysaid, stumbling forward and staring Hope_Howelllessly at the point where Harry_Potter had disappeared, ‘you’d better run for it! if malfoy tells anyone – you’d better get back to the castle, quick –’ ‘see you later,’ said Harry_Potter, and without another word, he tore back down the path towards hogsmeade. would malfoy believe what he had seen? would anyone believe malfoy? nobody knew about the invisibility cloak – nobody except Albus_Dumbledore. Harry_Potter’s stomach turned over – Albus_Dumbledore would know exactly what had happened, if malfoy said anything – back into honeydukes, back down the cellar steps, across the stone floor, through the trapdoor – Harry_Potter pulled off the cloak, tucked it under his arm, and ran, flat out, along the passage … malfoy would get back first … how long would it take him to find a teacher? panting, a sharp pain in his side, Harry_Potter didn’t slow down until he reached the stone slide. he would have to leave the cloak where it was, it was too much of a giveaway if malfoy had tipped off a teacher. he hid it in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast as he could, his sweaty hands slipping on the sides of the chute. he reached the inside of the witch’s hump, tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through and hoisted himself out; the hump closed, and just as Harry_Potter jumped out from behind the statue, he heard quick footsteps approaching. it was snape. he approached Harry_Potter at a swift walk, his black robes swishing, then stopped in front of him. ‘so,’ he said. there was a look of suppressed triumph about him. Harry_Potter tried to look innocent, all too aware of his sweaty face and his muddy hands, which he quickly hid in his pockets. ‘come with me, potter,’ said snape. Harry_Potter followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his hands clean on the inside of his robes without snape noticing. they walked down the stairs to the Mundungus_Fletchereons and then into snape’s office. Harry_Potter had only been in here once before, and he had been in very serious trouble then, too. snape had acquired a few more horrible slimy things in jars since last time, all Stanley_Shunpikeding on shelves behind his desk, glinting in the firelight and adding to the threatening atmosphere. ‘sit,’ said snape. Harry_Potter sat. snape, however, remained Stanley_Shunpikeding. ‘mr malfoy has just been to see me with a strange story, potter,’ said snape. Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. ‘he tells me that he was up by the shrieking shack when he ran into weasley – apparently alone.’ still, Harry_Potter didn’t speak. ‘mr malfoy states that he was Stanley_Shunpikeding talking to weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him on the back of the head. how do you think that could have happened?’ Harry_Potter tried to look mildly surprised. ‘i don’t know, professor.’ snape’s eyes were boring into Harry_Potter’s. it was exactly like trying to stare out a hippogriff. Harry_Potter tried hard not to blink. ‘mr malfoy then saw an extraordinary apparition. can you imagine what it might have been, potter?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, now trying to sound innocently curious. ‘it was your head, potter. floating in mid-air.’ there was a long silence. ‘maybe he’d better go to madam pomfrey,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘if he’s seeing things like –’ ‘what would your head have been doing in hogsmeade, potter?’ said snape softly. ‘your head is not allowed in hogsmeade. no part of your body has permission to be in hogsmeade.’ ‘i know that,’ said Harry_Potter, striving to keep his face free of guilt or fear. ‘it sounds like malfoy’s having hallucin–’ ‘malfoy is not having hallucinations,’ snarled snape, and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Harry_Potter’s chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. ‘if your head was in hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.’ ‘i’ve been up in gryffindor tower,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘like you told –’ ‘can anyone confirm that?’ Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. snape’s thin mouth curled into a horrible smile. ‘so,’ he said, straightening up again. ‘everyone from the minister for Magic_goblin downwards has been trying to keep famous Harry_Potter potter safe from Sirius_Black black. but famous Harry_Potter potter is a law unto himself. let the ordinary people worry about his safety! famous Harry_Potter potter goes where he wants to, with no thought for the consequences.’ Harry_Potter stayed silent. snape was trying to provoke him into telling the truth. he wasn’t going to do it. snape had no proof – yet. ‘how extraordinarily like your father you are, potter,’ snape said suddenly, his eyes glinting. ‘he, too, was exceedingly arrogant. a small amount of talent on the quidditch pitch made him think he was a cut above the rest of us, too. strutting around the place with his friends and admirers … the resemblance between you is uncanny.’ ‘my dad didn’t strut,’ said Harry_Potter, before he could stop himself. ‘and nor do i.’ ‘your father didn’t set much store by rules, either,’ snape went on, pressing his advantage, his thin face full of mAlice_Longbottom. ‘rules were for lesser mortals, not quidditch cup-winners. his head was so swollen –’ ‘shut up!’ Harry_Potter was suddenly on his feet. rage such as he had not felt since his last night in privet drive was thundering through him. he didn’t care that snape’s face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing dangerously. ‘what did you say to me, potter?’ ‘i told you to shut up about my dad!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘i know the truth, all right? he saved your life! Albus_Dumbledore told me! you wouldn’t even be here if it weren’t for my dad!’ snape’s sallow skin had gone the colour of sour milk. ‘and did the headmaster tell you the circumStanley_Shunpikeces in which your father saved my life?’ he whispered. ‘or did he consider the details too unpleasant for precious potter’s delicate ears?’ Harry_Potter bit his lip. he didn’t know what had happened and didn’t want to admit it – but snape seemed to have guessed the truth. ‘i would hate you to run away with a false idea of your father, potter,’ he said, a terrible grin twisting his face. ‘have you been imagining some act of glorious heroism? then let me correct you – your saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing joke on me that would have resulted in my death if your father hadn’t got cold feet at the last moment. there was nothing brave about what he did. he was saving his own skin as much as mine. had their joke succeeded, he would have been expelled from hogwarts.’ snape’s uneven, yellowish teeth were bared. ‘turn out your pockets, potter!’ he spat suddenly. Harry_Potter didn’t move. there was a pounding in his ears. ‘turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the headmaster! pull them out, potter!’ cold with dread, Harry_Potter slowly pulled out the bag of zonko’s tricks and the marauder’s map. snape picked up the zonko’s bag. ‘ron gave them to me,’ said Harry_Potter, praying he’d get a chance to tipRonald_Weasleyoff before snape saw him. ‘he – brought them back from hogsmeade last time –’ ‘indeed? and you’ve been carrying them round ever since? how very touching … and what is this?’ snape had picked up the map. Harry_Potter tried with all his might to keep his face impassive. ‘spare bit of parchment,’ he shrugged. snape turned it over, his eyes on Harry_Potter. ‘surely you don’t need such a very old piece of parchment?’ he said. ‘why don’t i just – throw this away?’ his hand moved towards the fire. ‘no!’ Harry_Potter said quickly. ‘so!’ said snape, his long nostrils quivering. ‘is this another treasured gift from mr weasley? or is it – something else? a letter, perhaps, written in invisible ink? or – instructions to get into hogsmeade without passing the dementors?’ Harry_Potter blinked. snape’s eyes gleamed. ‘let me see, let me see …’ he muttered, taking out his wand and smoothing the map out on his desk. ‘reveal your secret!’ he said, touching the wand to the parchment. nothing happened. Harry_Potter clenched his hands to stop them shaking. ‘show yourself!’ snape said, tapping the map sharply. it stayed blank. Harry_Potter was taking deep, calming breaths. ‘professor Severus_Snape snape, master of this school, commands you to yield the information you conceal!’ snape said, hitting the map with his wand. as though an invisible hand was writing upon it, words appeared on the smooth surface of the map. ‘mr Remus_Lupin presents his compliments to professor snape, and begs him to keep his abnormally large nose out of other people’s business.’ snape froze. Harry_Potter stared, dumbstruck, at the message. but the map didn’t stop there. more writing was appearing beneath the first. ‘mr James_Potter_I agrees with mr Remus_Lupin, and would like to add that professor snape is an ugly git.’ it would have been very funny if the situation hadn’t been so serious. and there was more … ‘mr Sirius_Black would like to register his astonishment that an idiot like that ever became a professor.’ Harry_Potter closed his eyes in horror. when he’d opened them, the map had had its last word. ‘mr Peter_Pettigrew bids professor snape good day, and advises him to wash his hair, the slimeball.’ Harry_Potter waited for the blow to fall. ‘so …’ said snape softly. ‘we’ll see about this …’ he strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of glittering powder from a jar on the fireplace, and threw it into the flames. ‘lupin!’ snape called into the fire. ‘i want a word!’ utterly bewildered, Harry_Potter stared at the fire. a large shape had appeared in it, revolving very fast. seconds later, professor lupin was clambering out of the fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes. ‘you called, Severus_Snape?’ said lupin mildly. ‘i certainly did,’ said snape, his face contorted with fury as he strode back to his desk. ‘i have just asked potter to empty his pockets. he was carrying this.’ snape pointed at the parchment, on which the words of messrs Remus_Lupin, Peter_Pettigrew, Sirius_Black and James_Potter_I were still shining. an odd, closed expression appeared on lupin’s face. ‘well?’ said snape. lupin continued to stare at the map. Harry_Potter had the impression that lupin was doing some very quick thinking. ‘well?’ said snape again. ‘this parchment is plainly full of dark Magic_goblin. this is supposed to be your area of expertise, lupin. where do you imagine potter got such a thing?’ lupin looked up and, by the merest half glance in Harry_Potter’s direction, warned him not to interrupt. ‘full of dark Magic_goblin?’ he repeated mildly. ‘do you really think so, Severus_Snape? it looks to me as though it is merely a piece of parchment that insults anybody who tries to read it. childish, but surely not dangerous? i imagine Harry_Potter got it from a joke-shop –’ ‘indeed?’ said snape. his jaw had gone rigid with anger. ‘you think a joke- shop could supply him with such a thing? you don’t think it more likely that he got it directly from the manufacturers?’ Harry_Potter didn’t underStanley_Shunpiked what snape was talking about. nor, apparently, did lupin. ‘you mean, from mr Peter_Pettigrew or one of these people?’ he said. ‘Harry_Potter, do you know any of these men?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘you see, Severus_Snape?’ said lupin, turning back to snape. ‘it looks like a zonko product to me –’ right on cue,Ronald_Weasleycame bursting into the office. he was completely out of breath, and stopped just short of snape’s desk, clutching the stitch in his chest and trying to speak. ‘i – gave – Harry_Potter – that – stuff,’ he choked. ‘bought – it – in zonko’s – ages – ago …’ ‘well!’ said lupin, clapping his hands together and looking around cheerfully. ‘that seems to clear that up! Severus_Snape, i’ll take this back, shall i?’ he folded the map and tucked it inside his robes. ‘Harry_Potter, ron, come with me, i need a word about my vampire essay. excuse us, Severus_Snape.’ Harry_Potter didn’t dare look at snape as they left his office. he,Ronald_Weasleyand lupin walked all the way back into the entrance hall before speaking. then Harry_Potter turned to lupin. ‘professor, i –’ ‘i don’t want to hear explanations,’ said lupin shortly. he glanced around the empty entrance hall and lowered his voice. ‘i happen to know that this map was confiscated by mr filch many years ago. yes, i know it’s a map,’ he said, as Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleylooked amazed. ‘i don’t want to know how it fell into your possession. i am, however, astounded that you didn’t hand it in. particularly after what happened the last time a student left information about the castle lying around. and i can’t let you have it back, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter had expected that, and was too keen for explanations to protest. ‘why did snape think i’d got it from the manufacturers?’ ‘because …’ lupin hesitated, ‘because these mapmakers would have wanted to lure you out of school. they’d think it extremely entertaining.’ ‘do you know them?’ said Harry_Potter, impressed. ‘we’ve met,’ he said shortly. he was looking at Harry_Potter more seriously than ever before. ‘don’t expect me to cover up for you again, Harry_Potter. i cannot make you take Sirius_Black black seriously. but i would have thought that what you have heard when the dementors draw near you would have had more of an effect on you. your parents gave their lives to keep you alive, Harry_Potter. a poor way to repay them – gambling their sacrifice for a bag of Magic_goblin tricks.’ he walked away, leaving Harry_Potter feeling worse by far than he had at any point in snape’s office. slowly, he andRonald_Weasleymounted the marble staircase. as Harry_Potter passed the one-eyed witch, he remembered the invisibility cloak – it was still down there, but he didn’t dare go and get it. ‘it’s my fault,’ saidRonald_Weasleyabruptly. ‘i persuaded you to go. lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done it –’ he broke off; they had reached the corridor where the security trolls were pacing, and Hermione_Granger was walking towards them. one look at her face convinced Harry_Potter that she had heard what had happened. his heart plummeted – had she told professor Minerva_McGonagall? ‘come to have a good gloat?’ saidRonald_Weasleysavagely, as she stopped in front of them. ‘or have you just been to tell on us?’ ‘no,’ said Hermione_Granger. she was holding a letter in her hands and her lip was trembling. ‘i just thought you ought to know … Rubeus_Hagrid lost his case. Buckbeak is going to be executed.’ 