– chapter twenty-two – owl post again ‘Harry_Potter!’ Hermione_Granger was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her watch. ‘we’ve got exactly ten minutes to get back down to the hospital wing without anybody seeing us – before Albus_Dumbledore locks the door –’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, wrenching his gaze from the sky, ‘let’s go …’ they slipped through the doorway behind them and down a tightly spiralling stone staircase. as they reached the bottom of it, they heard voices. they flattened themselves against the wall and listened. it sounded like fudge and snape. they were walking quickly along the corridor at the foot of the staircase. ‘… only Hope_Howell Albus_Dumbledore’s not going to make difficulties,’ snape was saying. ‘the kiss will be performed immediately?’ ‘as soon as macnair returns with the dementors. this whole black affair has been highly embarrassing. i can’t tell you how much i’m looking forward to informing the daily prophet that we’ve got him at last … i daresay they’ll want to interview you, snape … and once young Harry_Potter’s back in his right mind, i expect he’ll want to tell the prophet exactly how you saved him …’ Harry_Potter clenched his teeth. he caught a glimpse of snape’s smirk as he and fudge passed Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger’s hiding place. their footsteps died away. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger waited a few moments to make sure they’d really gone, then started to run in the opposite direction. down one staircase, then another, along a new corridor – then they heard a cackling ahead. ‘Peeves!’ Harry_Potter muttered, grabbing Hermione_Granger’s wrist. ‘in here!’ they tore into a deserted classroom to their left just in time. Peeves seemed to be bouncing along the corridor in tearing spirits, laughing his head off. ‘oh, he’s horrible,’ whispered Hermione_Granger, her ear to the door. ‘i bet he’s all excited because the dementors are going to finish Sirius_Black …’ she checked her watch. ‘three minutes, Harry_Potter!’ they waited until Peeves’s gloating voice had faded into the distance, then    slid back out of the room and broke into a run again. ‘Hermione_Granger – what’ll happen – if we don’t get back inside – before Albus_Dumbledore locks the door?’ Harry_Potter panted. ‘i don’t want to think about it!’ Hermione_Granger moaned, checking her watch again. ‘one minute!’ they had reached the end of the corridor with the hospital-wing entrance. ‘ok – i can hear Albus_Dumbledore,’ said Hermione_Granger tensely. ‘come on, Harry_Potter!’ they crept along the corridor. the door opened. Albus_Dumbledore’s back appeared. ‘i am going to lock you in,’ they heard him saying. ‘it is five minutes to midnight. miss granger, three turns should do it. good luck.’ Albus_Dumbledore backed out of the room, closed the door and took out his wand to magically lock it. paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoning, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger ran forwards. Albus_Dumbledore looked up, and a wide smile appeared under the long silver moustache. ‘well?’ he said quietly. ‘we did it!’ said Harry_Potter breathlessly. ‘Sirius_Black has gone, on Buckbeak …’ Albus_Dumbledore beamed at them. ‘well done. i think –’ he listened intently for any sound within the hospital wing. ‘yes, i think you’ve gone, too. get inside – i’ll lock you in –’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger slipped back inside the dormitory. it was empty except for Ronald_Weasley who was still lying motionless in the end bed. as the lock clicked behind them, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger crept back to their own beds, Hermione_Granger tucking the time-turner back under her robes. next moment, madam pomfrey had come striding back out of her office. ‘did i hear the headmaster leaving? am i allowed to look after my patients now?’ she was in a very bad mood. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger thought it best to accept their chocolate quietly. madam pomfrey stood over them, making sure they ate it. but Harry_Potter could hardly swallow. he and Hermione_Granger were waiting, listening, their nerves jangling … and then, as they both took a fourth piece of chocolate from madam pomfrey, they heard a distant roar of fury echoing from somewhere above them … ‘what was that?’ said madam pomfrey in alarm. now they could hear angry voices, growing louder and louder. madam pomfrey was staring at the door. ‘really – they’ll wake everybody up! what do they think they’re doing?’ Harry_Potter was trying to hear what the voices were saying. they were drawing nearer – ‘he must have disapparated, Severus_Snape, we should have left somebody in the room with him. when this gets out –’ ‘he didn’t disapparate!’ snape roared, now very close at hand. ‘you can’t apparate or disapparate inside this castle! this – has – something – to – do – with – potter!’ ‘Severus_Snape – be reasonable – Harry_Potter has been locked up –’ bam. the door of the hospital wing burst open. fudge, snape and Albus_Dumbledore came striding into the ward. Albus_Dumbledore alone looked calm. indeed, he looked as though he was quite enjoying himself. fudge appeared angry. but snape was beside himself. ‘out with it, potter!’ he bellowed. ‘what did you do?’ ‘professor snape!’ shrieked madam pomfrey. ‘control yourself!’ ‘see here, snape, be reasonable,’ said fudge. ‘this door’s been locked, we just saw –’ ‘they helped him escape, i know it!’ snape howled, pointing at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger. his face was twisted, spit was flying from his mouth. ‘calm down, man!’ fudge barked. ‘you’re talking nonsense!’ ‘you don’t know potter!’ shrieked snape. ‘he did it, i know he did it –’ ‘that will do, Severus_Snape,’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘think about what you are saying. this door has been locked since i left the ward ten minutes ago. madam pomfrey, have these students left their beds?’ ‘of course not!’ said madam pomfrey, bristling. ‘i’ve been with them ever since you left!’ ‘well, there you have it, Severus_Snape,’ said Albus_Dumbledore calmly. ‘unless you are suggesting that Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger are able to be in two places at once, i’m afraid i don’t see any point in troubling them further.’ snape stood there, seething, staring from fudge, who looked thoroughly shocked at his behaviour, to Albus_Dumbledore, whose eyes were twinkling behind his glasses. snape whirled about, robes swishing behind him, and stormed out of the ward. ‘fellow seems quite unbalanced,’ said fudge, staring after him. ‘i’d watch out for him, if i were you, Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘oh, he’s not unbalanced,’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘he’s just suffered a severe disappointment.’ ‘he’s not the only one!’ puffed fudge. ‘the daily prophet’s going to have a field day! we had black cornered and he slipped through our fingers yet again! all it needs now is for the story of that hippogriff’s escape to get out, and i’ll be a laughing stock! well … i’d better go and notify the ministry …’ ‘and the dementors?’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘they’ll be removed from the school, i trust?’ ‘oh, yes, they’ll have to go,’ said fudge, running his fingers distractedly through his hair. ‘never dreamed they’d attempt to administer the kiss on an innocent boy … completely out of control … no, i’ll have them packed off back to azkaban tonight. perhaps we should think about dragons at the school entrance …’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid would like that,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, with a swift smile at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger. as he and fudge left the dormitory, madam pomfrey hurried to the door and locked it again. muttering angrily to herself, she headed back to her office. there was a low moan from the other end of the ward. Ronald_Weasley had woken up. they could see him sitting up, rubbing his head, looking around. ‘what – what happened?’ he groaned. ‘Harry_Potter? why are we in here? where’s Sirius_Black? where’s lupin? what’s going on?’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger looked at each other. ‘you explain,’ said Harry_Potter, helping himself to some more chocolate. * when Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger left the hospital wing at noon next day, it was to find an almost deserted castle. the sweltering heat and the end of the exams meant that everyone was taking full advantage of another hogsmeade visit. neither Ronald_Weasley nor Hermione_Granger felt like going, however, so they and Harry_Potter wandered into the grounds, still talking about the extraordinary events of the previous night and wondering where Sirius_Black and Buckbeak were now. sitting near the lake, watching the giant squid waving its tentacles lazily above the water, Harry_Potter lost the thread of the conversation as he looked across to the opposite bank. the stag had galloped towards him from there just last night … a shadow fell across them and they looked up to see a very bleary-eyed tablecloth-sized Rubeus_Hagrid, mopping his sweaty face with one of his handkerchiefs and beaming down at them. ‘know i shouldn’ feel happy, after wha’ happened las’ night,’ he said. ‘i mean, black escapin’ again, an’ everythin’ – but guess what?’ ‘what?’ they said, pretending to look curious. ‘Buckbeak! he escaped! he’s free! bin celebratin’ all night!’ ‘that’s wonderful!’ said Hermione_Granger, giving Ronald_Weasley a reproving look because he looked as though he was close to laughing. ‘yeah … can’t’ve tied him up properly,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, gazing happily out over the grounds. ‘i was worried this mornin’, mind … thought he mighta met professor lupin in the grounds, but lupin says he never ate anythin’ las’ night …’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘blimey, haven’ yeh heard?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, his smile fading a little. he lowered his voice, even though there was nobody in sight. ‘er – snape told all the slytherins this mornin’ … thought everyone’d know by now … professor lupin’s a werewolf, see. an’ he was loose in the grounds las’ night. he’s packin’ now, o’ course.’ ‘he’s packing?’ said Harry_Potter, alarmed. ‘why?’ ‘leavin’, isn’ he?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking surprised that Harry_Potter had to ask. ‘resigned firs’ thing this mornin’. says he can’ risk it happenin’ again.’ Harry_Potter scrambled to his feet. ‘i’m going to see him,’ he said to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘but if he’s resigned –’ ‘– doesn’t sound like there’s anything we can do –’ ‘i don’t care. i still want to see him. i’ll meet you back here.’ * lupin’s office door was open. he had already packed most of his things. the grindylow’s empty tank stood next to his battered old suitcase, which was open and nearly full. lupin was bending over something on his desk, and only looked up when Harry_Potter knocked on the door. ‘i saw you coming,’ said lupin, smiling. he pointed to the parchment he had been poring over. it was the marauder’s map. ‘i just saw Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘and he said you’d resigned. it’s not true, is it?’ ‘i’m afraid it is,’ said lupin. he started opening his desk drawers and taking out the contents. ‘why?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘the ministry of magic don’t think you were helping Sirius_Black, do they?’ lupin crossed to the door and closed it behind Harry_Potter. ‘no. professor Albus_Dumbledore managed to convince fudge that i was trying to save your lives.’ he sighed. ‘that was the final straw for Severus_Snape. i think the loss of the order of merlin hit him hard. so he – er – accidentally let slip that i am a werewolf this morning at breakfast.’ ‘you’re not leaving just because of that!’ said Harry_Potter. lupin smiled wryly. ‘this time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from parents – they will not want a werewolf teaching their children, Harry_Potter. and after last night, i see their point. i could have bitten any of you … that must never happen again.’ ‘you’re the best defence against the dark arts teacher we’ve ever had!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘don’t go!’ lupin shook his head and didn’t speak. he carried on emptying his drawers. then, while Harry_Potter was trying to think of a good argument to make him stay, lupin said, ‘from what the headmaster told me this morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry_Potter. if i’m proud of anything, it’s how much you’ve learned. tell me about your patronus.’ ‘how d’you know about that?’ said Harry_Potter, distracted. ‘what else could have driven the dementors back?’ Harry_Potter told lupin what had happened. when he’d finished, lupin was smiling again. ‘yes, your father was always a stag when he transformed,’ he said. ‘you guessed right … that’s why we called him James_Potter_I.’ lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed the desk drawers and turned to look at Harry_Potter. ‘here – i brought this from the shrieking shack last night,’ he said, handing Harry_Potter back the invisibility cloak. ‘and …’ he hesitated, then held out the marauder’s map, too. ‘i am no longer your teacher, so i don’t feel guilty about giving you this back as well. it’s no use to me, and i daresay you, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger will find uses for it.’ Harry_Potter took the map and grinned. ‘you told me Remus_Lupin, Peter_Pettigrew, Sirius_Black and James_Potter_I would’ve wanted to lure me out of school … you said they’d have thought it was funny.’ ‘and so we would have done,’ said lupin, now reaching down to close his case. ‘i have no hesitation in saying that James_Potter_I would have been highly disappointed if his son had never found any of the secret passages out of the castle.’ there was a knock on the door. Harry_Potter hastily stuffed the marauder’s map and the invisibility cloak into his pocket. it was professor Albus_Dumbledore. he didn’t look surprised to see Harry_Potter there. ‘your carriage is at the gates, Remus_Lupin,’ he said. ‘thank you, headmaster.’ lupin picked up his old suitcase and the empty grindylow tank. ‘well – goodbye, Harry_Potter,’ he said, smiling. ‘it has been a real pleasure teaching you. i feel sure we’ll meet again some time. headmaster, there is no need to see me to the gates, i can manage …’ Harry_Potter had the impression that lupin wanted to leave as quickly as possible. ‘goodbye, then, Remus_Lupin,’ said Albus_Dumbledore soberly. lupin shifted the grindylow tank slightly so that he and Albus_Dumbledore could shake hands. then, with a final nod to Harry_Potter, and a swift smile, lupin left the office. Harry_Potter sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at the floor. he heard the door close and looked up. Albus_Dumbledore was still there. ‘why so miserable, Harry_Potter?’ he said quietly. ‘you should be very proud of yourself after last night.’ ‘it didn’t make any difference,’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘pettigrew got away.’ ‘didn’t make any difference?’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘it made all the difference in the world, Harry_Potter. you helped uncover the truth. you saved an innocent man from a terrible fate.’ terrible. something stirred in Harry_Potter’s memory. greater and more terrible than ever before … professor Sybill_Trelawney’s prediction! ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore – yesterday, when i was having my divination exam, professor Sybill_Trelawney went very – very strange.’ ‘indeed?’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘er – stranger than usual, you mean?’ ‘yes … her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled and she said … she said voldemort’s servant was going to set out to return to him before midnight … she said the servant would help him come back to power.’ Harry_Potter stared up at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘and then she sort of became normal again, and she couldn’t remember anything she’d said. was it – was she making a real prediction?’ Albus_Dumbledore looked mildly impressed. ‘do you know, Harry_Potter, i think she might have been,’ he said thoughtfully. ‘who’d have thought it? that brings her total of real predictions up to two. i should offer her a pay rise …’ ‘but –’ Harry_Potter looked at him, aghast. how could Albus_Dumbledore take this so calmly? ‘but – i stopped Sirius_Black and professor lupin killing pettigrew! that makes it my fault, if voldemort comes back!’ ‘it does not,’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘hasn’t your experience with the time-turner taught you anything, Harry_Potter? the consequences of our actions are always so complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a very difficult business indeed … professor Sybill_Trelawney, bless her, is living proof of that. you did a very noble thing, in saving pettigrew’s life.’ ‘but if he helps voldemort back to power –!’ ‘pettigrew owes his life to you. you have sent voldemort a deputy who is in your debt. when one wizard saves another wizard’s life, it creates a certain bond between them … and i’m much mistaken if voldemort wants his servant in the debt of Harry_Potter.’ ‘i don’t want a bond with pettigrew!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he betrayed my parents!’ ‘this is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, Harry_Potter. but trust me … the time may come when you will be very glad you saved pettigrew’s life.’ Harry_Potter couldn’t imagine when that would be. Albus_Dumbledore looked as though he knew what Harry_Potter was thinking. ‘i knew your father very well, both at hogwarts and later, Harry_Potter,’ he said gently. ‘he would have saved pettigrew too, i am sure of it.’ Harry_Potter looked up at him. Albus_Dumbledore wouldn’t laugh – he could tell Albus_Dumbledore … ‘last night … i thought it was my dad who’d conjured my patronus. i mean, when i saw myself across the lake … i thought i was seeing him.’ ‘an easy mistake to make,’ said Albus_Dumbledore softly. ‘i expect you’re tired of hearing it, but you do look extraordinarily like James_Potter_I. except for your eyes … you have your mother’s eyes.’ Harry_Potter shook his head. ‘it was stupid, thinking it was him,’ he muttered. ‘i mean, i knew he was dead.’ ‘you think the dead we have loved ever truly leave us? you think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? your father is alive in you, Harry_Potter, and shows himself most plainly when you have need of him. how else could you produce that particular patronus? James_Potter_I rode again last night.’ it took a moment for Harry_Potter to realise what Albus_Dumbledore had said. ‘Sirius_Black told me all about how they became animagi last night,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, smiling. ‘an extraordinary achievement – not least, keeping it quiet from me. and then i remembered the most unusual form your patronus took, when it charged mr malfoy down at your quidditch match against ravenclaw. so you did see your father last night, Harry_Potter … you found him inside yourself.’ and Albus_Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry_Potter to his very confused thoughts. * nobody at hogwarts knew the truth of what had happened the night that Sirius_Black, Buckbeak and pettigrew had vanished except Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and professor Albus_Dumbledore. as the end of term approached, Harry_Potter heard many different theories about what had really happened, but none of them came close to the truth. malfoy was furious about Buckbeak. he was convinced that Rubeus_Hagrid had found a way of smuggling the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged that he and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. Percy_Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the subject of Sirius_Black’ escape. ‘if i manage to get into the ministry, i’ll have a lot of proposals to make about magical law enforcement!’ he told the only person who would listen – his girlfriend, Penelope_Clearwater. though the weather was perfect, though the atmosphere was so cheerful, though he knew they had achieved the near impossible in helping Sirius_Black to freedom, Harry_Potter had never approached the end of a school year in worse spirits. he certainly wasn’t the only one who was sorry to see professor lupin go. the whole of Harry_Potter’s defence against the dark arts class were miserable about his resignation. ‘wonder what they’ll give us next year?’ said Seamus_Finnigan gloomily. ‘maybe a vampire,’ suggested Dean_Thomas Hope_Howellfully. it wasn’t only professor lupin’s departure that was weighing on Harry_Potter’s mind. he couldn’t help thinking a lot about professor Sybill_Trelawney’s prediction. he kept wondering where pettigrew was now, whether he had sought sanctuary with voldemort yet. but the thing that was lowering Harry_Potter’s spirits most of all was the prospect of returning to Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley. for maybe half an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed he would be living with Sirius_Black from now on … his parents’ best friend … it would have been the next best thing to having his own father back. and while no news of Sirius_Black was definitely good news, because it meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Harry_Potter couldn’t help feeling miserable when he thought of the home he might have had, and the fact that it was now impossible. the exam results came out on the last day of term. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had passed every subject. Harry_Potter was amazed that he had got through potions. he had a shrewd suspicion that Albus_Dumbledore had stepped in to stop snape failing him on purpose. snape’s behaviour towards Harry_Potter over the past week had been quite alarming. Harry_Potter wouldn’t have thought it possible that snape’s dislike for him could increase, but it certainly had done. a muscle twitched unpleasantly at the corner of snape’s thin mouth every time he looked at Harry_Potter, and he was constantly flexing his fingers, as though itching to place them around Harry_Potter’s throat. Percy_Weasley had got his top-grade n.e.w.ts; Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had scraped a handful of o.w.ls each. gryffindor house, meanwhile, largely thanks to their spectacular performance in the quidditch cup, had won the house championship for the third year running. this meant that the end-of-term feast took place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that the gryffindor table was the noisiest of the lot, as everybody celebrated. even Harry_Potter managed to forget about the journey back to Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley next day as he ate, drank, talked and laughed with the rest. * as the hogwarts express pulled out of the station next morning, Hermione_Granger gave Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley some surprising news. ‘i went to see professor Minerva_McGonagall this morning, just before breakfast. i’ve decided to drop muggle studies.’ ‘but you passed your exam with three hundred and twenty per cent!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i know,’ sighed Hermione_Granger, ‘but i can’t stand another year like this one. that time-turner, it was driving me mad. i’ve handed it in. without muggle studies and divination, i’ll be able to have a normal timetable again.’ ‘i still can’t believe you didn’t tell us about it,’ said Ronald_Weasley grumpily. ‘we’re supposed to be your friends.’ ‘i promised i wouldn’t tell anyone,’ said Hermione_Granger severely. she looked around at Harry_Potter, who was watching hogwarts disappear from view behind a mountain. two whole months before he’d see it again … ‘oh, cheer up, Harry_Potter!’ said Hermione_Granger sadly. ‘i’m ok,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘just thinking about the holidays.’ ‘yeah, i’ve been thinking about them, too,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Harry_Potter, you’ve got to come and stay with us. i’ll fix it up with mum and dad, then i’ll call you. i know how to use a fellytone now –’ ‘a telephone, Ronald_Weasley’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘honestly, you should take muggle studies next year …’ Ronald_Weasley ignored her. ‘it’s the quidditch world cup this summer! how about it, Harry_Potter? come and stay, and we’ll go and see it! dad can usually get tickets from work.’ this proposal had the effect of cheering Harry_Potter up a great deal. ‘yeah … i bet Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’d be pleased to let me come … especially after what i did to Marjorie_Dursley …’ feeling considerably more cheerful, Harry_Potter joined Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger in several games of exploding snap, and when the witch with the tea trolley arrived, he bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing with chocolate in it. but it was late in the afternoon before the thing that made him truly happy turned up … ‘Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger suddenly, peering over his shoulder. ‘what’s that thing outside your window?’ Harry_Potter turned to look outside. something very small and grey was bobbing in and out of sight beyond the glass. he stood up for a better look and saw that it was a tiny owl, carrying a letter which was much too big for it. the owl was so small, in fact, that it kept tumbling over in the air, buffeted this way and that in the train’s slipstream. Harry_Potter quickly pulled down the window, stretched out his arm and caught it. it felt like a very Fluffy snitch. he brought it carefully inside. the owl dropped its letter onto Harry_Potter’s seat and began zooming around their compartment, apparently very pleased with itself for accomplishing its task. Hedwig clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval. Crookshanks sat up in his seat, following the owl with his great yellow eyes. Ronald_Weasley noticing this, snatched the owl safely out of harm’s way. Harry_Potter picked up the letter. it was addressed to him. he ripped open the letter and shouted, ‘it’s from Sirius_Black!’ ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger excitedly. ‘read it aloud!’ dear Harry_Potter, i Hope_Howell this finds you before you reach your aunt and uncle. i don’t know whether they’re used to owl post. Buckbeak and i are in hiding. i won’t tell you where, in case this falls into the wrong hands. i have some doubt about the owl’s reliability, but he is the best i could find, and he did seem eager for the job. i believe the dementors are still searching for me, but they haven’t a Hope_Howell of finding me here. i am planning to allow some muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way from hogwarts, so that the security on the castle will be lifted.  there is something i never got round to telling you during our brief meeting. it was i who sent you the firebolt – ‘ha!’ said Hermione_Granger triumphantly. ‘see! i told you it was from him!’ ‘yes, but he hadn’t jinxed it, had he?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘ouch!’ the tiny owl, now hooting happily in his hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what it seemed to think was an affectionate way. Crookshanks took the order to the owl office for me. i used your name but told them to take the gold from Gringotts_Head_Goblin vault number seven hundred and eleven – my own. please consider it as thirteen birthdays’ worth of presents from your godfather. i would also like to apologise for the fright i think i gave you, that night last year when you left your uncle’s house. i had only Hope_Howelld to get a glimpse of you before starting my journey north, but i think the sight of me alarmed you. i am enclosing something else for you, which i think will make your next year at hogwarts more enjoyable. if ever you need me, send word. your owl will find me. i’ll write again soon. Sirius_Black Harry_Potter looked eagerly inside the envelope. there was another piece of parchment in there. he read it through quickly and felt suddenly as warm and contented as though he’d swallowed a bottle of hot butterbeer in one go. i, Sirius_Black, Harry_Potter’s godfather, hereby give him permission to visit hogsmeade at weekends. ‘that’ll be good enough for Albus_Dumbledore!’ said Harry_Potter happily. he looked back at Sirius_Black’ letter. ‘hang on, there’s a ps … i thought your friend Ronald_Weasley might like to keep this owl, as it’s my fault he no longer has a rat. ron’s eyes widened. the minute owl was still hooting excitedly. ‘keep him?’ he said uncertainly. he looked closely at the owl for a      moment, then, to Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger’s great surprise, he held him out for Crookshanks to sniff. ‘what d’you reckon?’ Ronald_Weasley asked the cat. ‘definitely an owl?’ Crookshanks purred. ‘that’s good enough for me,’ said Ronald_Weasley happily. ‘he’s mine.’ Harry_Potter read and re-read the letter from Sirius_Black all the way back into king’s cross station. it was still clutched tightly in his hand as he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stepped back through the barrier of platform nine and three- quarters. Harry_Potter spotted uncle Vernon_Dursley at once. he was standing a good distance from mr and Molly_Weasley, eyeing them suspiciously, and when Molly_Weasley hugged Harry_Potter in greeting, his worst suspicions about them seemed confirmed. ‘i’ll call about the world cup!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled after Harry_Potter, as Harry_Potter bid him and Hermione_Granger goodbye, then wheeled the trolley bearing his trunk and Hedwig’s cage towards uncle Vernon_Dursley, who greeted him in usual fashion. ‘what’s that?’ he snarled, staring at the envelope Harry_Potter was still clutching in his hand. ‘if it’s another form for me to sign, you’ve got another –’ ‘it’s not,’ said Harry_Potter cheerfully. ‘it’s a letter from my godfather.’ ‘godfather?’ spluttered uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘you haven’t got a godfather!’ ‘yes, i have,’ said Harry_Potter brightly. ‘he was my mum and dad’s best friend. he’s a convicted murderer, but he’s broken out of wizard prison and he’s on the run. he likes to keep in touch with me, though … keep up with my news … check i’m happy …’ and grinning broadly at the look of horror on uncle Vernon_Dursley’s face, Harry_Potter set off towards the station exit, Hedwig rattling along in front of him, for what looked like a much better summer than the last. 