– chapter thirteen – gryffindor versus ravenclaw it looked like the end ofRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger’s friendship. each was so angry with the other that Harry_Potter couldn’t see how they’d ever make it up.Ronald_Weasleywas enraged that Hermione_Granger had never taken Crookshanks’s attempts to eat scabbers seriously, hadn’t bothered to keep a close enough watch on him and was still trying to pretend that Crookshanks was innocent by suggestingRonald_Weasleylook for scabbers under all the boys’ beds. Hermione_Granger, meanwhile, maintained fiercely thatRonald_Weasleyhad no proof that Crookshanks had eaten scabbers, that the ginger hairs might have been there since christmas, and thatRonald_Weasleyhad been prejudiced against her cat ever since Crookshanks had landed on ron’s head in the Magic_goblinal menagerie. personally, Harry_Potter was sure that Crookshanks had eaten scabbers, and when he tried to point out to Hermione_Granger that the evidence all pointed that way, she lost her temper with Harry_Potter, too. ‘ok, side with ron, i knew you would!’ she said shrilly. ‘first the firebolt, now scabbers, everything’s my fault, isn’t it! just leave me alone, Harry_Potter, i’ve got a lot of work to do!’Ronald_Weasleyhad taken the loss of his rat very hard indeed. ‘come on, ron, you were always saying how boring scabbers was,’ said Fred_Weasley bracingly. ‘and he’s been off-colour for ages, he was wasting away. it was probably better for him to snuff it quickly. one swallow – he probably didn’t feel a thing.’ ‘Fred_Weasley!’ said Ginevra_Weasley indignantly. ‘all he did was eat and sleep, ron, you said it yourself,’ said George_Weasley. ‘he bit Goyle for us once!’Ronald_Weasleysaid miserably. ‘remember, Harry_Potter?’ ‘yeah, that’s true,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘his finest hour,’ said Fred_Weasley, unable to keep a straight face. ‘let the scar on Goyle’s finger Stanley_Shunpiked as a lasting tribute to his memory. oh, come on, ron, get yourself down to hogsmeade and buy a new rat. what’s the point of moaning?’    in a last-ditch attempt to cheerRonald_Weasleyup, Harry_Potter persuaded him to come along to the gryffindor team’s final practice before the ravenclaw match, so that he could have a go on the firebolt after they’d finished. this did seem to take ron’s mind off scabbers for a moment (‘brilliant! can i try and shoot a few goals on it?’) so they set off for the quidditch pitch together. madam hooch, who was still overseeing gryffindor practices to keep an eye on Harry_Potter, was just as impressed with the firebolt as everyone else had been. she took it in her hands before take-off and gave them the benefit of her professional opinion. ‘look at the balance on it! if the nimbus series has a fault, it’s a slight list to the tail-end – you often find they develop a drag after a few years. they’ve updated the handle, too, a bit slimmer than the cleansweeps, reminds me of the old silver arrows – a pity they’ve stopped making them, i learnt to fly on one, and a very fine old broom it was too … ’ she continued in this vein for some time, until wood said, ‘er – madam hooch? is it ok if Harry_Potter has the firebolt back? only we need to practise …’ ‘oh – right – here you are, then, potter,’ said madam hooch. ‘i’ll sit over here with weasley …’ she andRonald_Weasleyleft the pitch to sit in the stadium, and the gryffindor team gathered around wood for his final instructions for tomorrow’s match. ‘Harry_Potter, i’ve just found out who ravenclaw are playing as seeker. it’s Cho_Chang. she’s a fourth-year, and she’s pretty good … i really Hope_Howelld she wouldn’t be fit, she’s had some problems with injuries …’ wood scowled his displeasure that Cho_Chang had made a full recovery, then said, ‘on the other hand, she rides a comet two sixty, which is going to look like a joke next to the firebolt.’ he gave Harry_Potter’s broom a look of fervent admiration, then said, ‘ok, everyone, let’s go –’ and at long last, Harry_Potter mounted his firebolt, and kicked off from the ground. it was better than he’d ever dreamed. the firebolt turned with the lightest touch; it seemed to obey his thoughts rather than his grip. it sped across the pitch at such speed that the stadium turned into a green and grey blur; Harry_Potter turned it so sharply that Alicia_Spinnet spinnet screamed, then he went into a perfectly controlled dive, brushing the grassy pitch with his toes before rising thirty, forty, fifty feet into the air again – ‘Harry_Potter, i’m letting the snitch out!’ wood called. Harry_Potter turned and raced a bludger towards the goalposts; he outstripped it easily, saw the snitch dart out from behind wood and within ten seconds had caught it tightly in his hand. the team cheered madly. Harry_Potter let the snitch go again, gave it a minute’s head start, then tore after it, weaving in and out of the others; he spotted it lurking near Katie_Bell bell’s knee, looped her easily, and caught it again. it was the best practice ever; the team, inspired by the presence of the firebolt in their midst, performed their best moves faultlessly, and by the time they hit the ground again, wood didn’t have a single criticism to make, which, as George_Weasley weasley pointed out, was a first. ‘i can’t see what’s going to stop us tomorrow!’ said wood. ‘not unless – Harry_Potter, you’ve sorted your dementor problem, haven’t you?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, thinking of his feeble patronus and wishing it was stronger. ‘the dementors won’t turn up again, Oliver_Wood, Albus_Dumbledore’d do his nut,’ said Fred_Weasley confidently. ‘well, let’s Hope_Howell not,’ said wood. ‘anyway – good work, everyone. let’s get back to the tower – turn in early …’ ‘i’m staying out for a bit,Ronald_Weasleywants a go on the firebolt,’ Harry_Potter told wood, and while the rest of the team headed off to the changing rooms, Harry_Potter strode over to ron, who vaulted the barrier to the Stanley_Shunpikeds and came to meet him. madam hooch had fallen asleep in her seat. ‘here you go,’ said Harry_Potter, handingRonald_Weasleythe firebolt. ron, an expression of ecstasy on his face, mounted the broom and zoomed off into the gathering darkness while Harry_Potter walked around the edge of the pitch, watching him. night had fallen before madam hooch awoke with a start, told Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyoff for not waking her, and insisted that they go back to the castle. Harry_Potter shouldered the firebolt and he andRonald_Weasleywalked out of the shadowy stadium, discussing the firebolt’s superbly smooth action, its phenomenal acceleration and its pinpoint turning. they were halfway towards the castle when Harry_Potter, glancing to his left, saw something that made his heart turn over – a pair of eyes, gleaming out of the darkness. Harry_Potter stopped dead, his heart banging against his ribs. ‘what’s the matter?’ said ron. Harry_Potter pointed.Ronald_Weasleypulled out his wand and muttered, ‘lumos!’ a beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bottom of a tree and illuminated its branches; there, crouching amongst the budding leaves, was Crookshanks. ‘get out of it!’Ronald_Weasleyroared, and he stooped down and seized a stone lying on the grass, but before he could do anything else, Crookshanks had vanished with one swish of his long ginger tail. ‘see?’Ronald_Weasleysaid furiously, chucking the stone down again. ‘she’s still letting him wander about wherever he wants – probably washing down scabbers with a couple of birds now …’ Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. he took a deep breath as relief seeped through him; he had been sure for a moment that those eyes had belonged to the grim. they set off for the castle once more. slightly ashamed of his moment of panic, Harry_Potter didn’t say anything toRonald_Weasley– nor did he look left or right until they had reached the well lit entrance hall. * Harry_Potter went down to breakfast next morning with the rest of the boys in his dormitory, all of whom seemed to think the firebolt deserved a sort of guard of honour. as Harry_Potter entered the great hall, heads turned in the direction of the firebolt, and there was a good deal of excited muttering. Harry_Potter saw, with enormous satisfaction, that the slytherin team were all looking thunderstruck. ‘did you see his face?’ saidRonald_Weasleygleefully, looking back at malfoy. ‘he can’t believe it! this is brilliant!’ wood, too, was basking in the reflected glory of the firebolt. ‘put it here, Harry_Potter,’ he said, laying the broom in the middle of the table and carefully turning it so that its name faced upwards. people from the ravenclaw and hufflepuff tables were soon coming over to look. Cedric_Diggory diggory came over to congratulate Harry_Potter on having acquired such a superb replacement for his nimbus, and Percy_Weasley’s ravenclaw girlfriend, Penelope_Clearwater clearwater, asked if she could actually hold the firebolt. ‘now, now, Penelope_Clearwater, no sabotage!’ said Percy_Weasley heartily, as she examined the firebolt closely. ‘Penelope_Clearwater and i have got a bet on,’ he told the team. ‘ten galleons on the outcome of the match!’ Penelope_Clearwater put the firebolt down again, thanked Harry_Potter and went back to her table. ‘Harry_Potter – make sure you win,’ said Percy_Weasley, in an urgent whisper. ‘i haven’t got ten galleons. yes, i’m coming, Penelope_Clearwater!’ and he bustled off to join her in a piece of toast. ‘sure you can manage that broom, potter?’ said a cold, drawling voice. Draco_Malfoy malfoy had arrived for a closer look, crabbe and Goyle right behind him. ‘yeah, reckon so,’ said Harry_Potter casually. ‘got plenty of special features, hasn’t it?’ said malfoy, eyes glittering maliciously. ‘shame it doesn’t come with a parachute – in case you get too near a dementor.’ crabbe and Goyle sniggered. ‘pity you can’t attach an extra arm to yours, malfoy,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘then it could catch the snitch for you.’ the gryffindor team laughed loudly. malfoy’s pale eyes narrowed, and he stalked away. they watched him rejoin the rest of the slytherin team, who put their heads together, no doubt asking malfoy whether Harry_Potter’s broom really was a firebolt. at a quarter to eleven, the gryffindor team set off for the changing rooms. the weather couldn’t have been more different from their match against hufflepuff. it was a clear, cool day, with a very light breeze; there would be no visibility problems this time, and Harry_Potter, though nervous, was starting to feel the excitement only a quidditch match could bring. they could hear the rest of the school moving into the stadium beyond. Harry_Potter took off his black school robes, removed his wand from his pocket, and stuck it inside the t- shirt he was going to wear under his quidditch robes. he only Hope_Howelld he wouldn’t need it. he wondered suddenly whether professor lupin was in the crowd, watching. ‘you know what we’ve got to do,’ said wood, as they prepared to leave the changing rooms. ‘if we lose this match, we’re out of the running. just – just fly like you did in practice yesterday, and we’ll be ok!’ they walked out onto the pitch to tumultuous applause. the ravenclaw team, dressed in blue, were already Stanley_Shunpikeding in the middle of the pitch. their seeker, Cho_Chang, was the only girl in their team. she was shorter than Harry_Potter by about a head, and Harry_Potter couldn’t help noticing, nervous as he was, that she was extremely pretty. she smiled at Harry_Potter as the teams faced each other behind their captains, and he felt a slight jolt in the region of his stomach that he didn’t think had anything to do with nerves. ‘wood, davies, shake hands,’ madam hooch said briskly, and wood shook hands with the ravenclaw captain. ‘mount your brooms … on my whistle … three – two – one –’ Harry_Potter kicked off into the air and the firebolt zoomed higher and faster than any other broom; he soared around the stadium and began squinting around for the snitch, listening all the while to the commentary, which was being provided by the weasley twins’ friend, Lee_Jordan. ‘they’re off, and the big excitement this match is the firebolt which Harry_Potter potter is flying for gryffindor. according to which broomstick, the firebolt’s going to be the broom of choice for the national teams at this year’s world championship –’ ‘jordan, would you mind telling us what’s going on in the match?’ interrupted professor Minerva_McGonagall’s voice. ‘right you are, professor – just giving a bit of background information. the firebolt, incidenTall_gobliny, has a built-in auto-brake and –’ ‘jordan!’ ‘ok, ok, gryffindor in possession, Katie_Bell bell of gryffindor heading for goal …’ Harry_Potter streaked past Katie_Bell in the opposite direction, gazing around for a glint of gold and noticing that Cho_Chang was tailing him closely. she was undoubtedly a very good flier – she kept cutting across him, forcing him to change direction. ‘show her your acceleration, Harry_Potter!’ Fred_Weasley yelled, as he whooshed past in pursuit of a bludger that was aiming for Alicia_Spinnet. Harry_Potter urged the firebolt forward as they rounded the ravenclaw goalposts andCho_Changfell behind. just as Katie_Bell succeeded in scoring the first goal of the match, and the gryffindor end of the pitch went wild, he saw it – the snitch was close to the ground, flitting near one of the barriers. Harry_Potter dived;Cho_Changsaw what he was doing and tore after him. Harry_Potter was speeding up, excitement flooding him; dives were his speciality. he was ten feet away – then a bludger, hit by one of the ravenclaw beaters, came pelting out of nowhere; Harry_Potter veered off course, avoiding it by an inch, and in those few, crucial seconds, the snitch had vanished. there was a great ‘ooooooh’ of disappointment from the gryffindor supporters, but much applause for their beater from the ravenclaw end. George_Weasley weasley vented his feelings by hitting the second bludger directly at the offending beater, who was forced to roll right over in mid-air to avoid it. ‘gryffindor lead by eighty points to zero, and look at that firebolt go! potter’s really putting it through its paces now. see it turn – chang’s comet is just no match for it. the firebolt’s precision-balance is really noticeable in these long –’ ‘jordan! are you being paid to advertise firebolts? get on with the commentary!’ ravenclaw were pulling back; they had now scored three goals, which put gryffindor only fifty points ahead – ifCho_Changgot the snitch before him, ravenclaw would win. Harry_Potter dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a ravenclaw chaser, scanning the pitch frantically. a glint of gold, a flutter of tiny wings – the snitch was circling the gryffindor goalpost … Harry_Potter accelerated, eyes fixed on the speck of gold ahead – but next second,Cho_Changhad appeared out of thin air, blocking him – ‘Harry_Potter, this is no time to be a gentleman!’ wood roared, as Harry_Potter swerved to avoid a collision. ‘knock her off her broom if you have to!’ Harry_Potter turned and caught sight of cho; she was grinning. the snitch had vanished again. Harry_Potter turned his firebolt upwards and was soon twenty feet above the game. out of the corner of his eye, he sawCho_Changfollowing him … she’d decided to mark him rather than search for the snitch herself. right then … if she wanted to tail him, she’d have to take the consequences … he dived again, and cho, thinking he’d seen the snitch, tried to follow. Harry_Potter pulled out of the dive very sharply, she hurtled downwards; he rose fast as a bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time: the snitch was glittering way above the pitch at the ravenclaw end. he accelerated; so, many feet below, did cho. he was winning, gaining on the snitch with every second – then – ‘oh!’ screamed cho, pointing. distracted, Harry_Potter looked down. three dementors, three Tall_goblin, black, hooded dementors, were looking up at him. he didn’t stop to think. plunging a hand down the neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and roared, ‘expecto patronum!’ something silver white, something enormous, erupted from the end of his wand. he knew it had shot directly at the dementors but didn’t pause to watch; his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead – he was nearly there. he stretched out the hand still grasping his wand and just managed to close his fingers over the small, struggling snitch. madam hooch’s whistle sounded, Harry_Potter turned around in mid-air and saw six scarlet blurs bearing down on him. next moment, the whole team were hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his broom. down below he could hear the roars of the gryffindors in the crowd. ‘that’s my boy!’ wood kept yelling. Alicia_Spinnet, Angelina_Johnson and Katie_Bell had all kissed Harry_Potter, and Fred_Weasley had him in a grip so tight Harry_Potter felt as though his head would come off. in complete disarray, the team managed to make its way back to the ground. Harry_Potter got off his broom and looked up to see a gaggle of gryffindor supporters sprinting onto the pitch,Ronald_Weasleyin the lead. before he knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd. ‘yes!’Ronald_Weasleyyelled, yanking Harry_Potter’s arm into the air. ‘yes! yes!’ ‘well done, Harry_Potter!’ said Percy_Weasley, looking delighted. ‘ten galleons to me! must find Penelope_Clearwater, excuse me –’ ‘good on you, Harry_Potter!’ roared Seamus_Finnigan finnigan. ‘ruddy brilliant!’ boomed Rubeus_Hagrid over  the heads of  the milling gryffindors. ‘that was quite some patronus,’ said a voice in Harry_Potter’s ear. Harry_Potter turned around to see professor lupin, who looked both shaken and pleased. ‘the dementors didn’t affect me at all!’ Harry_Potter said excitedly. ‘i didn’t feel a thing!’ ‘that would be because they – er – weren’t dementors,’ said professor lupin. ‘come and see –’ he led Harry_Potter out of the crowd until they were able to see the edge of the pitch. ‘you gave mr malfoy quite a fright,’ said lupin. Harry_Potter stared. lying in a crumpled heap on the ground were malfoy, crabbe, Goyle and Marcus_Flint flint, the slytherin team captain, all struggling to remove themselves from long, black, hooded robes. it looked as though malfoy had been Stanley_Shunpikeding on Goyle’s shoulders. Stanley_Shunpikeding over them, with an expression of the utmost fury on her face, was professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘an unworthy trick!’ she was shouting. ‘a low and cowardly attempt to sabotage the gryffindor seeker! detention for all of you, and fifty points from slytherin! i shall be speaking to professor Albus_Dumbledore about this, make no mistake! ah, here he comes now!’ if anything could have set the seal on gryffindor’s victory, it was this. ron, who had fought his way through to Harry_Potter’s side, doubled up with laughter as they watched malfoy fighting to extricate himself from the robe, Goyle’s head still stuck inside it. ‘come on, Harry_Potter!’ said George_Weasley, fighting his way over. ‘party! gryffindor common room, now!’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter, and feeling happier than he had done in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still in their scarlet robes, out of the stadium and back up to the castle. * it felt as though they had already won the quidditch cup; the party went on all day and well into the night. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley weasley disappeared for a couple of hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of butterbeer, pumpkin fizz and several bags full of honeydukes sweets. ‘how did you do that?’ squealed Angelina_Johnson John_Dawlishson, as George_Weasley started throwing peppermint toads into the crowd. ‘with a little help from Remus_Lupin, Peter_Pettigrew, Sirius_Black and James_Potter_I,’ Fred_Weasley muttered in Harry_Potter’s ear. only one person wasn’t joining in the festivities. Hermione_Granger, incredibly, was sitting in a corner, attempting to read an enormous book entitled home life and social habits of british muggles. Harry_Potter broke away from the table where Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had started juggling butterbeer bottles, and went over to her. ‘did you even come to the match?’ he asked her. ‘of course i did,’ said Hermione_Granger, in a strangely high-pitched voice, not looking up. ‘and i’m very glad we won, and i think you did really well, but i need to read this by monday.’ ‘come on, Hermione_Granger, come and have some food,’ Harry_Potter said, looking over atRonald_Weasleyand wondering whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the hatchet. ‘i can’t, Harry_Potter, i’ve still got four hundred and twenty-two pages to read!’ said Hermione_Granger, now sounding slightly hystEric_Munchal. ‘anyway …’ she glanced over at ron, too, ‘he doesn’t want me to join in.’ there was no arguing with this, asRonald_Weasleychose that moment to say loudly, ‘if scabbers hadn’t just been eaten, he could have had some of these fudge flies, he used to really like them –’ Hermione_Granger burst into tears. before Harry_Potter could say or do anything, she had tucked the enormous book under her arm, and, still sobbing, run towards the staircase to the girls’ dormitories and out of sight. ‘can’t you give her a break?’ Harry_Potter askedRonald_Weasleyquietly. ‘no,’ saidRonald_Weasleyflatly. ‘if she just acted like she was sorry – but she’ll never admit she’s wrong, Hermione_Granger. she’s still acting like scabbers has gone on holiday or something.’ the gryffindor party only ended when professor Minerva_McGonagall turned up in her tartan dressing-gown and hair-net at one in the morning, to insist that they all went to bed. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyclimbed the stairs to their dormitory, still discussing the match. at last, exhausted, Harry_Potter climbed into bed, twitched the hangings of his four-poster shut to block out a ray of moonlight, lay back and felt himself almost inStanley_Shunpiketly drifting off to sleep … he had a very strange dream. he was walking through a forest, his firebolt over his shoulder, following something silvery white. it was winding its way through the trees ahead, and he could only catch glimpses of it between the leaves. anxious to catch up with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his quarry. Harry_Potter broke into a run and ahead, he heard hooves gathering speed. now he was running flat out, and ahead he could hear galloping. then he turned a corner into a clearing and – ‘aaaaaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrrrrggghhhhh! nooooooooooooooooo!’ Harry_Potter woke as suddenly as though he’d been hit in the face. disorientated in the total darkness, he fumbled with his hangings – he could hear movements around him, and Seamus_Finnigan finnigan’s voice from the other side of the room. ‘what’s going on?’ Harry_Potter thought he heard the dormitory door slam. at last finding the divide in his curtains, he ripped them back, and at the same moment, Dean_Thomas thomas lit his lamp.Ronald_Weasleywas sitting up in bed, the hangings torn from one side, a look of the utmost terror on his face. ‘black! Sirius_Black black! with a knife!’ ‘what?’ ‘here! just now! slashed the curtains! woke me up!’ ‘you sure you weren’t dreaming, ron?’ said Dean_Thomas. ‘look at the curtains! i tell you, he was here!’ they all scrambled out of bed; Harry_Potter reached the dormitory door first, and they sprinted back down the staircase. doors opened behind them, and sleepy voices called after them. ‘who shouted?’ ‘what’re you doing?’ the common room was lit by the glow of the dying fire, still littered with debris from the party. it was deserted. ‘are you sure you weren’t dreaming, ron?’ ‘i’m telling you, i saw him!’ ‘what’s all the noise?’ ‘professor Minerva_McGonagall told us to go to bed!’ a few of the girls had come down their staircase, pulling on dressing- gowns and yawning. boys, too, were reappearing. ‘excellent, are we carrying on?’ said Fred_Weasley brightly. ‘everyone back upstairs!’ said Percy_Weasley, hurrying into the common room and pinning his head boy badge to his pyjamas as he spoke. ‘Percy_Weasley – Sirius_Black black!’ saidRonald_Weasleyfaintly. ‘in our dormitory! with a knife! woke me up!’ the common room went very still. ‘nonsense!’ said Percy_Weasley, looking startled. ‘you had too much to eat,Ronald_Weasley– had a nightmare –’ ‘i’m telling you –’ ‘now, really, enough’s enough!’ professor Minerva_McGonagall was back. she slammed the portrait behind her as she entered the common room and stared furiously around. ‘i am delighted that gryffindor won the match, but this is getting ridiculous! Percy_Weasley, i expected better of you!’ ‘i certainly didn’t authorise this, professor!’ said Percy_Weasley, puffing himself up indignantly. ‘i was just telling them all to get back to bed! my brotherRonald_Weasleyhere had a nightmare –’ ‘it wasn’t a nightmare!’Ronald_Weasleyyelled. ‘professor, i woke up, and Sirius_Black black was Stanley_Shunpikeding over me, holding a knife!’ professor Minerva_McGonagall stared at him. ‘don’t be ridiculous, weasley, how could he possibly have got through the portrait hole?’ ‘ask him!’ said ron, pointing a shaking finger at the back of sir Cadogan’s picture. ‘ask him if he saw –’ glaring suspiciously at ron, professor Minerva_McGonagall pushed the portrait back open and went outside. the whole common room listened with bated breath. ‘sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter gryffindor tower?’ ‘certainly, good lady!’ cried sir Cadogan. there was a stunned silence, both inside and outside the common room. ‘you – you did?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘but – but the password!’ ‘he had ’em!’ said sir Cadogan proudly. ‘had the whole week’s, my lady! read ’em off a little piece of paper!’ professor Minerva_McGonagall pulled herself back through the portrait hole to face the stunned crowd. she was white as chalk. ‘which person,’ she said, her voice shaking, ‘which abysmally foolish person wrote down this week’s passwords and left them lying around?’ there was utter silence, broken by the smallest of terrified squeaks. Neville_Longbottom longbottom, trembling from head to Fluffy-slippered toes, raised his hand slowly into the air. 