– chapter fifteen – the quidditch final ‘he – he sent me this,’ Hermione_Granger said, holding out the letter. Harry_Potter took it. the parchment was damp, and enormous teardrops had smudged the ink so badly in places that it was very difficult to read. dear Hermione_Granger, we lost. i’m allowed to bring him back to hogwarts. execution date to be fixed. Buckbeak has enjoyed london. i won’t forget all the help you gave us. Rubeus_Hagrid ‘they can’t do this,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘they can’t. Buckbeak isn’t dangerous.’ ‘malfoy’s dad’s frightened the committee into it,’ said Hermione_Granger, wiping her eyes. ‘you know what he’s like. they’re a bunch of doddery old fools, and they were scared. there’ll be an appeal, though, there always is. only i can’t see any Hope_Howell … nothing will have changed.’ ‘yeah, it will,’ said Ronald_Weasley fiercely. ‘you won’t have to do all the work alone this time, Hermione_Granger. i’ll help.’ ‘oh, Ronald_Weasley’ Hermione_Granger flung her arms around ron’s neck and broke down completely. Ronald_Weasley looking quite terrified, patted her very awkwardly on the top of the head. finally, Hermione_Granger drew away. ‘ron, i’m really, really sorry about scabbers …’ she sobbed. ‘oh – well – he was old,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking thoroughly relieved that she had let go of him. ‘and he was a bit useless. you never know, mum and dad might get me an owl now.’ * the safety measures imposed on the students since black’s second break-in      made it impossible for Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to go and visit Rubeus_Hagrid in the evenings. their only chance of talking to him was during care of magical creatures lessons. he seemed numb with shock at the verdict. ‘’s all my fault. got all tongue-tied. they was all sittin’ there in black robes an’ i kep’ droppin’ me notes and forgettin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, Hermione_Granger. an’ then Lucius_Malfoy stood up an’ said his bit, and the committee jus’ did exac’ly what he told ’em …’ ‘there’s still the appeal!’ said Ronald_Weasley fiercely. ‘don’t give up yet, we’re working on it!’ they were walking back up to the castle with the rest of the class. ahead they could see malfoy, who was walking with Crabbe and Goyle, and kept looking back, laughing derisively. ‘’s no good, Ronald_Weasley’ said Rubeus_Hagrid sadly as they reached the castle steps. ‘that committee’s in Lucius_Malfoy’s pocket. i’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Buckbeak’s time is the happiest he’s ever had. i owe him that …’ Rubeus_Hagrid turned round and hurried back towards his cabin, his face buried in his handkerchief. ‘look at him blubber!’ malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle had been standing just inside the castle doors, listening. ‘have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?’ said malfoy. ‘and he’s supposed to be our teacher!’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley both made furious moves towards malfoy, but Hermione_Granger got there first – smack! she had slapped malfoy around the face with all the strength she could muster. malfoy staggered. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Crabbe and Goyle stood flabbergasted as Hermione_Granger raised her hand again. ‘don’t you dare call Rubeus_Hagrid pathetic, you foul – you evil –’ ‘Hermione_Granger!’ said Ronald_Weasley weakly, and he tried to grab her hand as she swung it back. ‘get off, Ronald_Weasley’ Hermione_Granger pulled out her wand. malfoy stepped backwards. Crabbe and Goyle looked at him for instructions, thoroughly bewildered. ‘c’mon,’ malfoy muttered, and next moment, all three of them had disappeared into the passageway to the Mundungus_Fletchereons. ‘Hermione_Granger!’ Ronald_Weasley said again, sounding both stunned and impressed. ‘Harry_Potter, you’d better beat him in the quidditch final!’ Hermione_Granger said shrilly. ‘you just better had, because i can’t stand it if slytherin win!’ ‘we’re due in charms,’ said Ronald_Weasley still goggling at Hermione_Granger. ‘we’d better go.’ they hurried up the marble staircase towards professor flitwick’s classroom. ‘you’re late, boys!’ said professor flitwick reprovingly, as Harry_Potter opened the classroom door. ‘come along, quickly, wands out, we’re experimenting with cheering charms today. we’ve already divided into pairs –’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley hurried to a desk at the back and opened their bags. Ronald_Weasley looked behind him. ‘where’s Hermione_Granger gone?’ Harry_Potter looked around, too. Hermione_Granger hadn’t entered the classroom, yet Harry_Potter knew she had been right next to him when he had opened the door. ‘that’s weird,’ said Harry_Potter, staring at Ronald_Weasley ‘maybe – maybe she went to the bathroom or something?’ but Hermione_Granger didn’t turn up all lesson. ‘she could’ve done with a cheering charm on her, too,’ said Ronald_Weasley as the class left for lunch, all grinning broadly – the cheering charms had left them with a feeling of great contentment. Hermione_Granger wasn’t at lunch either. by the time they had finished their apple pie, the after-effects of the cheering charms were wearing off, and Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley had started to get slightly worried. ‘you don’t think malfoy did something to her?’ Ronald_Weasley said anxiously, as they hurried upstairs towards gryffindor tower. they passed the security trolls, gave the Fat_Lady the password (‘flibbertigibbet’) and scrambled through the portrait hole into the common room. Hermione_Granger was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head resting on an open arithmancy book. they went to sit down either side of her. Harry_Potter prodded her awake. ‘wh-what?’ said Hermione_Granger, waking with a start, and staring wildly around. ‘is it time to go? w-which lesson have we got now?’ ‘divination, but it’s not for another twenty minutes,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Hermione_Granger, why didn’t you come to charms?’ ‘what? oh no!’ Hermione_Granger squeaked. ‘i forgot to go to charms!’ ‘but how could you forget?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you were with us till we were right outside the classroom!’ ‘i don’t believe it!’ Hermione_Granger wailed. ‘was professor flitwick angry? oh, it was malfoy, i was thinking about him and i lost track of things!’ ‘you know what, Hermione_Granger?’ said Ronald_Weasley looking down at the enormous arithmancy book Hermione_Granger had been using as a pillow. ‘i reckon you’re cracking up. you’re trying to do too much.’ ‘no, i’m not!’ said Hermione_Granger, brushing her hair out of her eyes and staring Hope_Howelllessly around for her bag. ‘i just made a mistake, that’s all! i’d better go and see professor flitwick and say sorry … i’ll see you in divination!’ Hermione_Granger joined them at the foot of the ladder to professor Sybill_Trelawney’s classroom twenty minutes later, looking extremely harassed. ‘i can’t believe i missed cheering charms! and i bet they come up in our exams. professor flitwick hinted they might!’ together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling tower room. glowing on every little table was a crystal ball full of pearly white mist. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger sat down together at the same rickety table. ‘i thought we weren’t starting crystal balls until next term,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered, casting a wary eye around for professor Sybill_Trelawney, in case she was lurking nearby. ‘don’t complain, this means we’ve finished palmistry,’ Harry_Potter muttered back. ‘i was getting sick of her flinching every time she looked at my hands.’ ‘good day to you!’ said the familiar, misty voice, and professor Sybill_Trelawney made her usual dramatic entrance out of the shadows. Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky glow of their crystal ball. ‘i have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little earlier than i had planned,’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney, seating herself with her back to the fire and gazing around. ‘the fates have informed me that your examination in june will concern the orb, and i am anxious to give you sufficient practice.’ Hermione_Granger snorted. ‘well, honestly … “the fates have informed her” … who sets the exam? she does! what an amazing prediction!’ she said, not troubling to keep her voice low. it was hard to tell whether professor Sybill_Trelawney had heard them, as her face was hidden in shadow. she continued, however, as though she had not. ‘crystal-gazing is a particularly refined art,’ she said dreamily. ‘i do not expect any of you to see when first you peer into the orb’s infinite depths. we shall start by practising relaxing the conscious mind and external eyes’ – ron began to snigger uncontrollably, and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the noise – ‘so as to clear the inner eye and the superconscious. perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you will see before the end of the class.’ and so they began. Harry_Potter, at least, felt extremely foolish, staring blankly at the crystal ball, trying to keep his mind empty when thoughts such as ‘this is stupid’ kept drifting across it. it didn’t help that Ronald_Weasley kept breaking into silent giggles and Hermione_Granger kept tutting. ‘seen anything yet?’ Harry_Potter asked them, after a quarter of an hour’s quiet crystal-gazing. ‘yeah, there’s a burn on this table,’ said Ronald_Weasley pointing. ‘someone’s spilled their candle.’ ‘this is such a waste of time,’ Hermione_Granger hissed. ‘i could be practising something useful. i could be catching up on cheering charms –’ professor Sybill_Trelawney rustled past. ‘would anyone like me to help them interpret the shadowy portents within their orb?’ she murmured over the clinking of her bangles. ‘i don’t need help,’ Ronald_Weasley whispered. ‘it’s obvious what this means. there’s going to be loads of fog tonight.’ both Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger burst out laughing. ‘now, really!’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney, as everyone’s heads turned in their direction. Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown were looking scandalised. ‘you are disturbing the clairvoyant vibrations!’ she approached their table and peered into their crystal ball. Harry_Potter felt his heart sinking. he was sure he knew what was coming … ‘there is something here!’ professor Sybill_Trelawney whispered, lowering her face to the ball, so that it was reflected twice in her huge glasses. ‘something moving … but what is it?’ Harry_Potter was prepared to bet everything he owned, including his firebolt, that it wasn’t good news, whatever it was. and sure enough … ‘my dear …’ professor Sybill_Trelawney breathed, gazing up at Harry_Potter. ‘it is here, plainer than ever before … my dear, stalking towards you, growing ever closer … the gr–’ ‘oh, for goodness’ sake!’ said Hermione_Granger, loudly. ‘not that ridiculous grim again!’ professor Sybill_Trelawney raised her enormous eyes to Hermione_Granger’s face. Parvati_Patil whispered something to Lavender_Brown, and they both glared at Hermione_Granger, too. professor Sybill_Trelawney stood up, surveying Hermione_Granger with unmistakeable anger. ‘i am sorry to say that from the moment you have arrived in this class, my dear, it has been apparent that you do not have what the noble art of divination requires. indeed, i don’t remember ever meeting a student whose mind was so Hope_Howelllessly mundane.’ there was a moment’s silence. then – ‘fine!’ said Hermione_Granger suddenly, getting up and cramming unfogging the future back into her bag. ‘fine!’ she repeated, swinging the bag over her shoulder and almost knocking Ronald_Weasley off his chair. ‘i give up! i’m leaving!’ and to the whole class’s amazement, Hermione_Granger strode over to the trapdoor, kicked it open, and climbed down the ladder out of sight. it took a few minutes for the class to settle down again. professor Sybill_Trelawney seemed to have forgotten all about the grim. she turned abruptly from Harry_Potter and ron’s table, breathing rather heavily as she tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her. ‘ooooo!’ said Lavender_Brown suddenly, making everyone start. ‘oooooo, professor Sybill_Trelawney, i’ve just remembered! you saw her leaving, didn’t you? didn’t you, professor? “around easter, one of our number will leave us for ever!” you said it ages ago, professor!’ professor Sybill_Trelawney gave her a dewy smile. ‘yes, my dear, i did indeed know that miss granger would be leaving us. one Hope_Howells, however, that one might have mistaken the signs … the inner eye can be a burden, you know …’ Lavender_Brown and Parvati_Patil looked deeply impressed, and moved over so that professor Sybill_Trelawney could join their table instead. ‘some day Hermione_Granger’s having, eh?’ Ronald_Weasley muttered to Harry_Potter, looking awed. ‘yeah …’ Harry_Potter glanced into the crystal ball, but saw nothing but swirling white mist. had professor Sybill_Trelawney really seen the grim again? would he? the last thing he needed was another near-fatal accident, with the quidditch final drawing ever nearer. * the easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. the third-years had never had so much homework. Neville_Longbottom seemed close to a nervous collapse, and he wasn’t the only one. ‘call this a holiday!’ Seamus_Finnigan roared at the common room one afternoon. ‘the exams are ages away, what’re they playing at?’ but nobody had as much to do as Hermione_Granger. even without divination, she was taking more subjects than anybody else. she was usually last to leave the common room at night, first to arrive at the library next morning; she had shadows like lupin’s under her eyes, and seemed constantly close to tears. Ronald_Weasley had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak’s appeal. when he wasn’t doing his own work, he was poring over enormously thick volumes with names like the handbook of hippogriff psychology and fowl or foul? a study of hippogriff brutality. he was so absorbed, he even forgot to be horrible to Crookshanks. Harry_Potter, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around quidditch practice every day, not to mention endless discussions of tactics with wood. the gryffindor–slytherin match would take place on the first saturday after the easter holidays. slytherin were leading the tournament by exactly two hundred points. this meant (as wood constantly reminded his team) that they needed to win the match by more than that amount to win the cup. it also meant that the burden of winning fell largely on Harry_Potter, because capturing the snitch was worth one hundred and fifty points. ‘so you must only catch it if we’re more than fifty points up,’ wood told Harry_Potter constantly. ‘only if we’re more than fifty points up, Harry_Potter, or we win the match but lose the cup. you’ve got that, haven’t you? you must only catch the snitch if we’re –’ ‘i know, Oliver_Wood!’ Harry_Potter yelled. the whole of gryffindor house was obsessed with the coming match. gryffindor hadn’t won the quidditch cup since the legendary Charles_Weasley weasley (ron’s second-oldest brother) had been seeker. but Harry_Potter doubted whether any of them, even wood, wanted to win as much as he did. the enmity between Harry_Potter and malfoy was at its highest point ever. malfoy was still smarting about the mud-throwing incident in hogsmeade, and even more furious that Harry_Potter had somehow wormed his way out of punishment. Harry_Potter hadn’t forgotten malfoy’s attempt to sabotage him in the match against ravenclaw, but it was the matter of Buckbeak that made him most determined to beat malfoy in front of the entire school. never, in anyone’s memory, had a match approached in such a highly charged atmosphere. by the time the holidays were over, tension between the two teams and their houses was at breaking-point. a number of small scuffles broke out in the corridors, culminating in a nasty incident in which a gryffindor fourth-year and a slytherin sixth-year ended up in the hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears. Harry_Potter was having a particularly bad time of it. he couldn’t walk to class without slytherins sticking out their legs and trying to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching away looking disappointed when they saw him surrounded by people. wood had given instructions that Harry_Potter should be accompanied everywhere, in case the slytherins tried to put him out of action. the whole of gryffindor house took up the challenge enthusiastically, so that it was impossible for Harry_Potter to get to classes on time because he was surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Harry_Potter was more concerned for his firebolt’s safety than his own. when he wasn’t flying it, he locked it securely in his trunk, and frequently dashed back up to gryffindor tower at break-times to check that it was still there. * all usual pursuits were abandoned in the gryffindor common room the night before the match. even Hermione_Granger had put down her books. ‘i can’t work, i can’t concentrate,’ she said nervously. there was a great deal of noise. Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley were dealing with the pressure by being louder and more exuberant than ever. Oliver_Wood was crouched over a model of a quidditch pitch in the corner, prodding little figures across it with his wand and muttering to himself. Angelina_Johnson, Alicia_Spinnet and Katie_Bell were laughing at Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s jokes. Harry_Potter was sitting with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, removed from the centre of things, trying not to think about the next day, because every time he did, he had the horrible sensation that something very large was fighting to get out of his stomach. ‘you’re going to be fine,’ Hermione_Granger told him, though she looked positively terrified. ‘you’ve got a firebolt!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘yeah …’ said Harry_Potter, his stomach writhing. it came as a relief when wood suddenly stood up and yelled, ‘team! bed!’ * Harry_Potter slept badly. first he dreamed that he had overslept, and that wood was yelling, ‘where were you? we had to use Neville_Longbottom instead!’ then he dreamed that malfoy and the rest of the slytherin team arrived for the match riding dragons. he was flying at breakneck speed, trying to avoid a spurt of flames from malfoy’s steed’s mouth, when he realised he had forgotten his firebolt. he fell through the air and woke with a start. it was a few seconds before Harry_Potter remembered that the match hadn’t taken place yet, that he was safe in bed and that the slytherin team definitely wouldn’t be allowed to play on dragons. he was feeling very thirsty. as quietly as he could, he got out of his four-poster and went to pour himself some water from the silver jug beneath the window. the grounds were still and quiet. no breath of wind disturbed the treetops in the forbidden forest; the whomping willow was motionless and innocent- looking. it looked as though conditions for the match would be perfect. Harry_Potter set down his goblet and was about to turn back to his bed when something caught his eye. an animal of some kind was prowling across the silvery lawn. Harry_Potter dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his glasses and put them on, then hurried back to the window. it couldn’t be the grim – not now – not right before the match – he peered out at the grounds again and, after a minute’s frantic searching, spotted it. it was skirting the edge of the forest now … it wasn’t the grim at all … it was a cat … Harry_Potter clutched the window-ledge in relief as he recognised the bottle-brush tail. it was only Crookshanks … or was it only Crookshanks? Harry_Potter squinted, pressing his nose flat against the glass. Crookshanks seemed to have come to a halt. Harry_Potter was sure he could see something else moving in the shadow of the trees, too. and next moment, it had emerged: a gigantic, shaggy black dog, moving stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks trotting at its side. Harry_Potter stared. what did this mean? if Crookshanks could see the dog as well, how could it be an omen of Harry_Potter’s death? ‘ron!’ Harry_Potter hissed. ‘ron! wake up!’ ‘huh?’ ‘i need you to tell me if you can see something!’ ‘’s all dark, Harry_Potter,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered thickly. ‘what’re you on about?’ ‘down here –’ Harry_Potter looked quickly back out of the window. Crookshanks and the dog had vanished. Harry_Potter climbed onto the window- sill to look right down into the shadows of the castle, but they weren’t there. where had they gone? a loud snore told him Ronald_Weasley had fallen asleep again. * Harry_Potter and the rest of the gryffindor team entered the great hall next day to enormous applause. Harry_Potter couldn’t help grinning broadly as he saw that both the ravenclaw and hufflepuff tables were clapping them, too. the slytherin table hissed loudly as they passed. Harry_Potter noticed that malfoy looked even paler than usual. wood spent the whole of breakfast urging his team to eat, while touching nothing himself. then he hurried them off to the pitch before anyone else had finished, so they could get an idea of the conditions. as they left the great hall, everyone applauded again. ‘good luck, Harry_Potter!’ called Cho_Chang. Harry_Potter felt himself blushing. ‘ok … no wind to speak of … sun’s a bit bright, that could impair your vision, watch out for it … ground’s fairly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kick-off …’ wood paced the pitch, staring around with the team behind him. finally they saw the front doors of the castle open in the distance, and the rest of the school spill onto the lawn. ‘changing rooms,’ said wood tersely. none of them spoke as they changed into their scarlet robes. Harry_Potter wondered if they were feeling like he was: as though he’d eaten something extremely wriggly for breakfast. in what seemed like no time at all, wood was saying, ‘ok, it’s time, let’s go …’ they walked out onto the pitch to a tidal wave of noise. three-quarters of the crowd were wearing scarlet rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the gryffindor lion upon them or brandishing banners with slogans such as ‘go gryffindor!’ and ‘lions for the cup!’ behind the slytherin goalposts, however, two hundred people were wearing green; the silver serpent of slytherin glittered on their flags, and professor snape sat in the very front row, wearing green like everyone else, and a very grim smile. ‘and here are the gryffindors!’ yelled Lee_Jordan, who was acting as commentator as usual. ‘potter, bell, John_Dawlishson, spinnet, weasley, weasley and wood. widely acknowledged as the best side hogwarts has seen in a good few years –’ lee’s comments were drowned by a tide of ‘boos’ from the slytherin end. ‘and here come the slytherin team, led by captain flint. he’s made some changes in the line-up and seems to be going for size rather than skill –’ more boos from the slytherin crowd. Harry_Potter, however, thought Lee_Jordan had a point. malfoy was easily the smallest person on the slytherin team; the rest of them were enormous. ‘captains, shake hands!’ said madam Rolanda_Hooch. flint and wood approached each other and grasped each other’s hands very tightly; it looked as though each was trying to break the other’s fingers. ‘mount your brooms!’ said madam Rolanda_Hooch. ‘three … two … one …’ the sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the crowd as fourteen brooms rose into the air. Harry_Potter felt his hair fly back off his forehead; his nerves left him in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw malfoy on his tail, and sped off in search of the snitch. ‘and it’s gryffindor in possession, Alicia_Spinnet of gryffindor with the quaffle, heading straight for the slytherin goalposts, looking good, Alicia_Spinnet! argh, no – quaffle intercepted by Cassius_Warrington, Cassius_Warrington of slytherin tearing up the pitch – wham! – nice bludger work there by Fred_Weasley, Cassius_Warrington drops the quaffle, it’s caught by – John_Dawlishson, gryffindor back in possession, come on, Angelina_Johnson – nice swerve round Graham_Montague – duck, that’s a bludger! – she scores! ten–zero to Angelina_Johnson, gryffindor!’ Angelina_Johnson punched the air as she soared round the end of the pitch; the sea of scarlet below was screaming its delight – ‘ouch!’ Angelina_Johnson was nearly thrown from her broom as Marcus_Flint went smashing into her. ‘sorry!’ said flint, as the crowd below booed. ‘sorry, didn’t see her!’ next moment, Fred_Weasley had chucked his beater’s club at the back of flint’s head. flint’s nose smashed into the handle of his broom and began to bleed. ‘that will do!’ shrieked madam Rolanda_Hooch, zooming between them. ‘penalty to gryffindor for an unprovoked attack on their chaser! penalty to slytherin for deliberate damage to their chaser!’ ‘come off it, miss!’ howled Fred_Weasley, but madam Rolanda_Hooch blew her whistle and Alicia_Spinnet flew forward to take the penalty. ‘come on, Alicia_Spinnet!’ yelled Lee_Jordan into the silence that had descended on the crowd. ‘yes! she’s beaten the keeper! twenty– zero to gryffindor!’ Harry_Potter turned the firebolt sharply to watch flint, still bleeding freely, fly forwards to take the slytherin penalty. wood was hovering in front of the gryffindor goalposts, his jaw clenched. ‘’course, wood’s a superb keeper!’ Lee_Jordan told the crowd, as flint waited for madam Rolanda_Hooch’s whistle. ‘superb! very difficult to pass – very difficult indeed – yes! i don’t believe it! he’s saved it!’ relieved, Harry_Potter zoomed away, gazing around for the snitch, but still making sure he caught every word of lee’s commentary. it was essential that he hold malfoy off the snitch until gryffindor was more than fifty points up … ‘gryffindor in possession, no, slytherin in possession – no! – gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie_Bell, Katie_Bell for gryffindor with the quaffle, she’s streaking up the pitch – that was deliberate!’ Graham_Montague, a slytherin chaser, had swerved in front of Katie_Bell, and instead of seizing the quaffle, had grabbed her head. Katie_Bell cartwheeled in the air, managed to stay on her broom but dropped the quaffle. madam Rolanda_Hooch’s whistle rang out again as she soared over to Graham_Montague and began shouting at him. a minute later, Katie_Bell had put another penalty past the slytherin keeper. ‘thirty–zero! take that, you dirty, cheating –’ ‘jordan, if you can’t commentate in an unbiased way –!’ ‘i’m telling it like it is, professor!’ Harry_Potter felt a huge jolt of excitement. he had seen the snitch – it was shimmering at the foot of one of the gryffindor goalposts – but he mustn’t catch it yet. and if malfoy saw it … faking a look of sudden concentration, Harry_Potter pulled his firebolt round and sped off towards the slytherin end. it worked. malfoy went haring after him, clearly thinking Harry_Potter had seen the snitch there … whoosh. one of the bludgers came streaking past Harry_Potter’s right ear, hit by the gigantic slytherin beater, derrick. next moment – whoosh. the second bludger had grazed Harry_Potter’s elbow. the other beater, Lucian_Bole, was closing in. Harry_Potter had a fleeting glimpse of Lucian_Bole and derrick zooming towards him, clubs raised – he turned the firebolt upwards at the last second, and Lucian_Bole and derrick collided with a sickening crunch. ‘ha haaa!’ yelled Lee_Jordan, as the slytherin beaters lurched away from each other, clutching their heads. ‘too bad, boys! you’ll need to get up earlier than that to beat a firebolt! and it’s gryffindor in possession again, as John_Dawlishson takes the quaffle – flint alongside her – poke him in the eye, Angelina_Johnson! – it was a joke, professor, it was a joke – oh, no – flint in possession, flint flying towards the gryffindor goalposts, come on, now, wood, save –!’ but flint had scored; there was an eruption of cheers from the slytherin end and Lee_Jordan swore so badly that professor Minerva_McGonagall tried to tug the magical megaphone away from him. ‘sorry, professor, sorry! won’t happen again! so, gryffindor in the lead, thirty points to ten, and gryffindor in possession –’ it was turning into the dirtiest match Harry_Potter had ever played in. enraged that gryffindor had taken such an early lead, the slytherins were rapidly resorting to any means to take the quaffle. Lucian_Bole hit Alicia_Spinnet with his club and tried to say he’d thought she was a bludger. Fred_Weasley elbowed Lucian_Bole in the face in retaliation. madam Rolanda_Hooch awarded both teams penalties, and wood pulled off another spectacular save, making the score forty–ten to gryffindor. the snitch had disappeared again. malfoy was still keeping close to Harry_Potter as he soared over the match, looking around for it – once gryffindor were fifty points ahead … Katie_Bell scored. fifty–ten. Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley were swooping around her, clubs raised, in case any of the slytherins were thinking of revenge. Lucian_Bole and derrick took advantage of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s absence to aim both bludgers at wood; they caught him in the stomach, one after the other, and he rolled over in the air, clutching his broom, completely winded. madam Rolanda_Hooch was beside herself. ‘you do not attack the keeper unless the quaffle is within the scoring area!’ she shrieked at Lucian_Bole and derrick. ‘gryffindor penalty!’ and Angelina_Johnson scored. sixty–ten. moments later, Fred_Weasley pelted a bludger at Cassius_Warrington, knocking the quaffle out of his hands; Alicia_Spinnet seized it and put it through the slytherin goal: seventy–ten. the gryffindor crowd below were screaming themselves hoarse – gryffindor were sixty points in the lead, and if Harry_Potter caught the snitch now, the cup was theirs. Harry_Potter could almost feel hundreds of eyes following him as he soared around the pitch, high above the rest of the game, with malfoy speeding along behind him. and then he saw it. the snitch was sparkling twenty feet above him. Harry_Potter put on a huge burst of speed, the wind roaring in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but suddenly, the firebolt was slowing down – horrified, he looked around. malfoy had thrown himself forward, grabbed hold of the firebolt’s tail and was pulling it back. ‘you –’ Harry_Potter was angry enough to hit malfoy, but he couldn’t reach. malfoy was panting with the effort of holding onto the firebolt, but his eyes were sparkling maliciously. he had achieved what he’d wanted – the snitch had disappeared again. ‘penalty! penalty to gryffindor! i’ve never seen such tactics!’ madam Rolanda_Hooch screeched, shooting up to where malfoy was sliding back onto his nimbus two thousand and one. ‘you cheating scum!’ Lee_Jordan was howling into the megaphone, dancing out of professor Minerva_McGonagall’s reach. ‘you filthy, cheating b–’ professor Minerva_McGonagall didn’t even bother to tell him off. she was actually shaking her fist in malfoy’s direction; her hat had fallen off, and she, too, was shouting furiously. Alicia_Spinnet took gryffindor’s penalty, but she was so angry she missed by several feet. the gryffindor team was losing concentration and the slytherins, delighted by malfoy’s foul on Harry_Potter, were being spurred on to greater heights. ‘slytherin in possession, slytherin heading for goal – Graham_Montague scores –’ Lee_Jordan groaned. ‘seventy–twenty to gryffindor …’ Harry_Potter was now marking malfoy so closely their knees kept hitting each other. Harry_Potter wasn’t going to let malfoy anywhere near the snitch … ‘get out of it, potter!’ malfoy yelled in frustration, as he tried to turn and found Harry_Potter blocking him. ‘Angelina_Johnson gets the quaffle for gryffindor, come on, Angelina_Johnson, come on!’ Harry_Potter looked round. every single slytherin player apart from malfoy, even the slytherin keeper, was streaking up the pitch towards Angelina_Johnson – they were all going to block her – Harry_Potter wheeled the firebolt about, bent so low he was lying flat along the handle and kicked it forwards. like a bullet, he shot towards the slytherins. ‘aaaaaaarrrgh!’ they scattered as the firebolt zoomed towards them; Angelina_Johnson’s way was clear. ‘she scores! she scores! gryffindor lead by eighty points to twenty!’ Harry_Potter, who had almost pelted headlong into the stands, skidded to a halt in mid-air, reversed and zoomed back into the middle of the pitch. and then he saw something to make his heart stand still. malfoy was diving, a look of triumph on his face – there, a few feet above the grass below, was a tiny, golden glimmer. Harry_Potter urged the firebolt downwards but malfoy was Miles_Bletchley ahead. ‘go! go! go!’ Harry_Potter urged his broom. they were gaining on malfoy … Harry_Potter flattened himself to the broom handle as Lucian_Bole sent a bludger at him … he was at malfoy’s ankles … he was level – Harry_Potter threw himself forwards, taking both hands off his broom. he knocked malfoy’s arm out of the way and – ‘yes!’ he pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the stadium exploded. Harry_Potter soared above the crowd, an odd ringing in his ears. the tiny golden ball was held tight in his fist, beating its wings Hope_Howelllessly against his fingers. then wood was speeding towards him, half-blinded by tears; he seized Harry_Potter around the neck and sobbed unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Harry_Potter felt two large thumps as Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley hit them; then Angelina_Johnson, Alicia_Spinnet and Katie_Bell’s voices, ‘we’ve won the cup! we’ve won the cup!’ tangled together in a many-armed hug, the gryffindor team sank, yelling hoarsely, back to earth. wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring over the barriers onto the pitch. hands were raining down on their backs. Harry_Potter had a confused impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. then he, and the rest of the team, were hoisted onto the shoulders of the crowd. thrust into the light, he saw Rubeus_Hagrid, plastered with crimson rosettes – ‘yeh beat ’em, Harry_Potter, yeh beat ’em! wait till i tell Buckbeak!’ there was Percy_Weasley, jumping up and down like a maniac, all dignity forgotten. professor Minerva_McGonagall was sobbing harder even than wood, wiping her eyes with an enormous gryffindor flag; and there, fighting their way towards Harry_Potter, were Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. words failed them. they simply beamed, as Harry_Potter was borne towards the stands, where Albus_Dumbledore stood waiting with the enormous quidditch cup. if only there had been a dementor around … as a sobbing wood passed Harry_Potter the cup, as he lifted it into the air, Harry_Potter felt he could have produced the world’s best patronus. 