– chapter sixteen – professor trelawney’s prediction Harry_Potter’s euphoria at finally winning the quidditch cup lasted at least a week. even the weather seemed to be celebrating; as june approached, the days became cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing was strolling into the grounds and flopping down on the grass with several pints of iced pumpkin juice, perhaps playing a casual game of gobstones or watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across the surface of the lake. but they couldn’t. the exams were nearly upon them, and instead of lazing around outside, the students were forced to remain inside the castle, trying to bully their brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of summer air drifted in through the windows. even Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley weasley had been spotted working; they were about to take their o.w.ls (ordinary wizarding levels). Percy_Weasley was getting ready to sit his n.e.w.ts (nastily exhausting wizarding tests), the highest qualification hogwarts offered. as Percy_Weasley Hope_Howelld to enter the ministry of Magic_goblin, he needed top grades. he was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed the quiet of the common room in the evenings. in fact, the only person who seemed more anxious than Percy_Weasley was Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyhad given up asking her how she was managing to attend several classes at once, but they couldn’t restrain themselves when they saw the exam timetable she had drawn up for herself. the first column read: monday 9 o’clock, arithmancy 9 o’clock, transfiguration lunch 1 o’clock, charms 1 o’clock, ancient runes ‘Hermione_Granger?’Ronald_Weasleysaid cautiously, because she was liable to explode when      interrupted these days. ‘er – are you sure you’ve copied down these times right?’ ‘what?’ snapped Hermione_Granger, picking up the exam timetable and examining it. ‘yes, of course i have.’ ‘is there any point asking how you’re going to sit two exams at once?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no,’ said Hermione_Granger shortly. ‘has either of you seen my copy of numerology and grammatica?’ ‘oh, yeah, i borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading,’ said ron, but very quietly. Hermione_Granger started shifting heaps of parchment around on her table, looking for the book. just then, there was a rustle at the window and Hedwig fluttered through it, a note clutched tightly in her beak. ‘it’s from Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter, ripping the note open. ‘Buckbeak’s appeal – it’s set for the sixth.’ ‘that’s the day we finish our exams,’ said Hermione_Granger, still looking everywhere for her arithmancy book. ‘and they’re coming up here to do it,’ said Harry_Potter, still reading from the letter. ‘someone from the ministry of Magic_goblin and – and an executioner.’ Hermione_Granger looked up, startled. ‘they’re bringing the executioner to the appeal! but that sounds as though they’ve already decided!’ ‘yeah, it does,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘they can’t!’Ronald_Weasleyhowled. ‘i’ve spent ages reading up stuff for him, they can’t just ignore it all!’ but Harry_Potter had a horrible feeling that the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures had had its mind made up for it by mr malfoy. Draco_Malfoy, who had been noticeably subdued since gryffindor’s triumph in the quidditch final, seemed to regain some of his old swagger over the next few days. from sneering comments Harry_Potter overheard, malfoy was certain Buckbeak was going to be killed, and seemed thoroughly pleased with himself for bringing it about. it was all Harry_Potter could do to stop himself imitating Hermione_Granger and hitting malfoy in the face on these occasions. and the worst thing of all was that they had no time or opportunity to go and see Rubeus_Hagrid, because the strict new security measures had not been lifted, and Harry_Potter didn’t dare retrieve his invisibility cloak from below the one-eyed witch. * exam week began and an unnatural hush fell over the castle. the third-years emerged from transfiguration at lunch-time on monday limp and ashen- faced, comparing results and bemoaning the difficulty of the tasks they had been set, which had included turning a teapot into a tortoise. Hermione_Granger irRita_Skeeterted the rest by fussing about how her tortoise had looked more like a turtle, which was the least of everyone else’s worries. ‘mine still had a spout for a tail, what a nightmare …’ ‘were the tortoises supposed to breathe steam?’ ‘it still had a willow-patterned shell, d’you think that’ll count against me?’ then, after a hasty lunch, it was straight back upstairs for the charms exam. Hermione_Granger had been right; professor flitwick did indeed test them on cheering charms. Harry_Potter slightly overdid his out of nerves and ron, who was partnering him, ended up in fits of hystEric_Munchal laughter and had to be led away to a quiet room for an hour before he was ready to perform the charm himself. after dinner, the students hurried back to their common rooms, not to relax, but to start revising for care of Magic_goblinal creatures, potions and astronomy. Rubeus_Hagrid presided over the care of Magic_goblinal creatures exam the following morning with a very preoccupied air indeed; his heart didn’t seem to be in it at all. he had provided a large tub of fresh flobberworms for the class, and told them that, to pass the test, their flobberworm had to still be alive at the end of one hour. as flobberworms flourished best if left to their own devices, it was the easiest exam any of them had ever sat, and also gave Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger plenty of opportunity to speak to Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘Buckbeak’s gettin’ a bit depressed,’ Rubeus_Hagrid told them, bending low on the pretence of checking that Harry_Potter’s flobberworm was still alive. ‘bin cooped up too long. but still … we’ll know day after tomorrow – one way or the other.’ they had potions that afternoon, which was an unqualified disaster. try as Harry_Potter might, he couldn’t get his confusing concoction to thicken, and snape, Stanley_Shunpikeding watching with an air of vindictive pleasure, scribbled something that looked suspiciously like a zero onto his notes before moving away. then came astronomy at midnight, up on the Tall_goblinest tower; history of Magic_goblin on wednesday morning, in which Harry_Potter scribbled everything Florean_Fortescue fortescue had ever told him about medieval witch hunts, while wishing he could have had one of fortescue’s choco-nut sundaes with him in the stifling classroom. wednesday afternoon meant herbology, in the greenhouses under a baking hot sun; then back to the common room once more, with the backs of their necks sunburnt, thinking longingly of this time next day, when it would all be over. their second from last exam, on thursday morning, was defence against the dark arts. professor lupin had compiled the most unusual exam any of them had ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the sun, where they had to wade across a deep paddling pool containing a grindylow, cross a series of potholes full of red caps, squish their way across a patch of marsh, ignoring the misleading directions from a hinkypunk, then climb into an old trunk and battle with a new boggart. ‘excellent, Harry_Potter,’ lupin muttered, as Harry_Potter climbed out of the trunk, grinning. ‘full marks.’ flushed with his success, Harry_Potter hung around to watchRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger.Ronald_Weasleydid very well until he reached the hinkypunk, which successfully confused him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. Hermione_Granger did everything perfectly until she reached the trunk with the boggart in it. after about a minute inside it, she burst out again, screaming. ‘Hermione_Granger!’ said lupin, startled. ‘what’s the matter?’ ‘p-p-professor Minerva_McGonagall!’ Hermione_Granger gasped, pointing into the trunk. ‘sh-she said i’d failed everything!’ it took a little while to calm Hermione_Granger down. when at last she had regained a grip on herself, she, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleywent back to the castle.Ronald_Weasleywas still slightly inclined to laugh at Hermione_Granger’s boggart, but an argument was averted by the sight that met them on the top of the steps. Cornelius_Fudge fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped cloak, was Stanley_Shunpikeding there staring out at the grounds. he started at the sight of Harry_Potter. ‘hello there, Harry_Potter!’ he said. ‘just had an exam, i expect? nearly finished?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger and ron, not being on speaking terms with the minister for Magic_goblin, hovered awkwardly in the background. ‘lovely day,’ said fudge, casting an eye over the lake. ‘pity … pity …’ he sighed deeply and looked down at Harry_Potter. ‘i’m here on an unpleasant mission, Harry_Potter. the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures required a witness to the execution of a mad hippogriff. as i needed to visit hogwarts to check on the black situation, i was asked to step in.’ ‘does that mean the appeal’s already happened?’Ronald_Weasleyinterrupted, stepping forwards. ‘no, no, it’s scheduled for this afternoon,’ said fudge, looking curiously at ron. ‘then you might not have to witness an execution at all!’ saidRonald_Weasleystoutly. ‘the hippogriff might get off!’ before fudge could answer, two wizards came through the castle doors behind him. one was so ancient he appeared to be withering before their very eyes; the other was Tall_goblin and strapping, with a thin black moustache. Harry_Potter gathered that they were representatives of the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures, because the very old wizard squinted towards Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin and said in a feeble voice, ‘dear, dear, i’m getting too old for this … two o’clock, isn’t it, fudge?’ the black-moustached man was fingering something in his belt; Harry_Potter looked and saw that he was running one broad thumb along the blade of a shining axe.Ronald_Weasleyopened his mouth to say something, but Hermione_Granger nudged him hard in the ribs and jerked her head towards the entrance hall. ‘why’d you stop me?’ saidRonald_Weasleyangrily, as they entered the great hall for lunch. ‘did you see them? they’ve even got the axe ready! this isn’t justice!’ ‘ron, your dad works for the ministry. you can’t go saying things like that to his boss!’ said Hermione_Granger, but she, too, looked very upset. ‘as long as Rubeus_Hagrid keeps his head this time, and argues his case properly, they can’t possibly execute Buckbeak …’ but Harry_Potter could tell Hermione_Granger didn’t really believe what she was saying. all around them, people were talking excitedly as they ate their lunch, happily anticipating the end of exams that afternoon, but Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, lost in worry about Rubeus_Hagrid and Buckbeak, didn’t join in. Harry_Potter and ron’s last exam was divination; Hermione_Granger’s, muggle studies. they walked up the marble staircase together. Hermione_Granger left them on the first floor and Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyproceeded all the way up to the seventh, where many of their class were sitting on the spiral staircase to professor trelawney’s classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute revision. ‘she’s seeing us all separately,’ Neville_Longbottom informed them, as they went to sit down next to him. he had his copy of unfogging the future open on his lap at the pages devoted to crystal-gazing. ‘have either of you ever seen anything in a crystal ball?’ he asked them unhappily. ‘nope,’ said ron, in an offhand voice. he kept checking his watch; Harry_Potter knew that he was counting down the time until Buckbeak’s appeal started. the queue of people outside the classroom shortened very slowly. as each person climbed back down the silver ladder, the rest of the class hissed, ‘what did she ask? was it ok?’ but they all refused to say. ‘she says the crystal ball’s told her that, if i tell you, i’ll have a horrible accident!’ squeaked Neville_Longbottom, as he clambered back down the ladder towards Harry_Potter and ron, who had now reached the landing. ‘that’s convenient,’ snorted ron. ‘you know, i’m starting to think Hermione_Granger was right about her’ (he jabbed his thumb towards the trapdoor overhead), ‘she’s a right old fraud.’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, looking at his own watch. it was now two o’clock. ‘wish she’d hurry up …’ Parvati_Patil came back down the ladder glowing with pride. ‘she says i’ve got all the makings of a true seer,’ she informed Harry_Potter and ron. ‘i saw loads of stuff … well, good luck!’ she hurried off down the spiral staircase towards Lavender_Brown. ‘Ronald_Weasley weasley,’ said the familiar, misty voice from over their heads.Ronald_Weasleygrimaced at Harry_Potter, and climbed the silver ladder out of sight. Harry_Potter was now the only person left to be tested. he settled himself on the floor with his back against the wall, listening to a fly buzzing in the sunny window, his mind across the grounds with Rubeus_Hagrid. finally, after about twenty minutes, ron’s large feet reappeared on the ladder. ‘how’d it go?’ Harry_Potter asked him, Stanley_Shunpikeding up. ‘rubbish,’ said ron. ‘couldn’t see a thing, so i made some stuff up. don’t think she was convinced, though …’ ‘meet you in the common room,’ Harry_Potter muttered, as professor trelawney’s voice called, ‘Harry_Potter potter!’ the tower room was hotter than ever before; the curtains were closed, the fire was alight, and the usual sickly scent made Harry_Potter cough as he stumbled through the clutter of chairs and tables to where professor trelawney sat waiting for him before a large crystal ball. ‘good day, my dear,’ she said softly. ‘if you would kindly gaze into the orb … take your time, now … then tell me what you see within it …’ Harry_Potter bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as hard as he could, willing it to show him something other than swirling white fog, but nothing happened. ‘well?’ professor trelawney prompted delicately. ‘what do you see?’ the heat was overpowering and his nostrils were stinging with the perfumed smoke wafting from the fire beside them. he thought of whatRonald_Weasleyhad just said, and decided to pretend. ‘er –,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘a dark shape … um …’ ‘what does it resemble?’ whispered professor trelawney. ‘think, now …’ Harry_Potter cast his mind around and it landed on Buckbeak. ‘a hippogriff,’ he said firmly. ‘indeed!’ whispered professor trelawney, scribbling keenly on the parchment perched upon her knees. ‘my boy, you may well be seeing the outcome of poor Rubeus_Hagrid’s trouble with the ministry of Magic_goblin! look closer … does the hippogriff appear to … have its head?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter firmly. ‘are you sure?’ professor trelawney urged him. ‘are you quite sure, dear? you don’t see it writhing on the ground, perhaps, and a shadowy figure raising an axe behind it?’ ‘no!’ said Harry_Potter, starting to feel slightly sick. ‘no blood? no weeping Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘no!’ said Harry_Potter again, wanting more than ever to leave the room and the heat. ‘it looks fine, it’s – flying away …’ professor trelawney sighed. ‘well, dear, i think we’ll leave it there … a little disappointing … but i’m sure you did your best.’ relieved, Harry_Potter got up, picked up his bag and turned to go, but then a loud, harsh voice spoke behind him. ‘it will happen tonight.’ Harry_Potter wheeled around. professor trelawney had gone rigid in her armchair; her eyes were unfocused and her mouth sagging. ‘s-sorry?’ said Harry_Potter. but professor trelawney didn’t seem to hear him. her eyes started to roll. Harry_Potter stood there in a panic. she looked as though she was about to have some sort of seizure. he hesitated, thinking of running to the hospital wing – and then professor trelawney spoke again, in the same harsh voice, quite unlike her own: ‘the dark lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned by his followers. his servant has been chained these twelve years. tonight, before midnight, the servant will break free and set out to rejoin his master. the dark lord will rise again with his servant’s aid, greater and more terrible than ever before. tonight … before midnight … the servant … will set out … to rejoin … his master …’ professor trelawney’s head fell forwards onto her chest. she made a grunting sort of noise. then, quite suddenly, her head snapped up again. ‘i’m so sorry, dear boy,’ she said dreamily. ‘the heat of the day, you know … i drifted off for a moment …’ Harry_Potter stood there, still staring. ‘is there anything wrong, my dear?’ ‘you – you just told me that the – the dark lord’s going to rise again … that his servant’s going to go back to him …’ professor trelawney looked thoroughly startled. ‘the dark lord? he who must not be named? my dear boy, that’s hardly something to joke about … rise again, indeed …’ ‘but you just said it! you said the dark lord –’ ‘i think you must have dozed off too, dear!’ said professor trelawney. ‘i would certainly not presume to predict anything quite as far-fetched as that!’ Harry_Potter climbed back down the ladder and the spiral staircase, wondering … had he just heard professor trelawney make a real prediction? or had that been her idea of an impressive end to the test? five minutes later he was dashing past the security trolls outside the entrance to gryffindor tower, professor trelawney’s words still resounding in his head. people were striding past him in the opposite direction, laughing and joking, heading for the grounds and a bit of long-awaited freedom; by the time he had reached the portrait hole and entered the common room, it was almost deserted. over in a corner, however, satRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘professor trelawney,’ Harry_Potter panted, ‘just told me –’ but he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces. ‘Buckbeak lost,’ saidRonald_Weasleyweakly. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid’s just sent this.’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s note was dry this time, no tears had splattered it, yet his hand seemed to have shaken so much as he wrote that it was hardly legible. lost appeal. they’re going to execute at sunset. nothing you can do. don’t come down. i don’t want you to see it. Rubeus_Hagrid ‘we’ve got to go,’ said Harry_Potter at once. ‘he can’t just sit there on his own, waiting for the executioner!’ ‘sunset, though,’ said ron, who was staring out of the window in a glazed sort of way. ‘we’d never be allowed … specially you, Harry_Potter …’ Harry_Potter sank his head into his hands, thinking. ‘if we only had the invisibility cloak …’   ‘where is it?’ said Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter told her about leaving it in the passageway under the one-eyed witch. ‘… if snape sees me anywhere near there again, i’m in serious trouble,’ he finished. ‘that’s true,’ said Hermione_Granger, getting to her feet. ‘if he sees you … how do you open the witch’s hump again?’ ‘you – you tap it and say, “dissendium”,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but –’ Hermione_Granger didn’t wait for the rest of his sentence; she strode across the room, pushed the Fat_Lady’s portrait open and vanished from sight. ‘she hasn’t gone to get it?’Ronald_Weasleysaid, staring after her. she had. Hermione_Granger returned a quarter of an hour later with the silvery cloak folded carefully under her robes. ‘Hermione_Granger, i don’t know what’s got into you lately!’ said ron, astounded. ‘first you hit malfoy, then you walk out on professor trelawney –’ Hermione_Granger looked rather flattered. * they went down to dinner with everybody else, but did not return to gryffindor tower afterwards. Harry_Potter had the cloak hidden down the front of his robes; he had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. they skulked in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, listening, until they were sure it was deserted. they heard a last pair of people hurrying across the hall, and a door slamming. Hermione_Granger poked her head around the door. ‘ok,’ she whispered, ‘no one there – cloak on –’ walking very close together so that nobody would see them, they crossed the hall on tiptoe beneath the cloak, then walked down the stone front steps into the grounds. the sun was already sinking behind the forbidden forest, gilding the top branches of the trees. they reached Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin and knocked. he was a minute in answering, and when he did, he looked all around for his visitor, pale-faced and trembling. ‘it’s us,’ Harry_Potter hissed. ‘we’re wearing the invisibility cloak. let us in and we can take it off.’ ‘yeh shouldn’ve come!’ Rubeus_Hagrid whispered, but he stood back, and they stepped inside. Rubeus_Hagrid shut the door quickly and Harry_Potter pulled off the cloak. Rubeus_Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon their necks. he looked like a man who did not know where he was or what to do. this helplessness was worse to watch than tears. ‘wan’ some tea?’ he said. his great hands were shaking as he reached for the kettle. ‘where’s Buckbeak, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said Hermione_Granger hesitantly. ‘i – i took him outside,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, spilling milk all over the table as he filled up the jug. ‘he’s tethered in me pumpkin patch. thought he oughta see the trees an’ – an’ smell fresh air – before –’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s hand trembled so violently that the milk jug slipped from his grasp and shattered all over the floor. ‘i’ll do it, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly, hurrying over and starting to clean up the mess. ‘there’s another one in the cupboard,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said, sitting down and wiping his forehead on his sleeve. Harry_Potter glanced at ron, who looked back Hope_Howelllessly. ‘isn’t there anything anyone can do, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Harry_Potter asked fiercely, sitting down next to him. ‘Albus_Dumbledore –’ ‘he’s tried,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘he’s got no power ter overrule the committee. he told ’em Buckbeak’s all right, but they’re scared … yeh know what Lucius_Malfoy malfoy’s like … threatened ’em, i expect … an’ the executioner, macnair, he’s an old pal o’ malfoy’s … but it’ll be quick an’ clean … an’ i’ll be beside him …’ Rubeus_Hagrid swallowed. his eyes were darting all over the cabin, as though looking for some shred of Hope_Howell or comfort. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s gonna come down while it – while it happens. wrote me this mornin’. said he wants ter – ter be with me. great man, Albus_Dumbledore …’ Hermione_Granger, who had been rummaging in Rubeus_Hagrid’s cupboard for another milk jug, let out a small, quickly stifled sob. she straightened up with the new jug in her hands, fighting back tears. ‘we’ll stay with you, too, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ she began, but Rubeus_Hagrid shook his shaggy head. ‘yeh’re ter go back up ter the castle. i told yeh, i don’ wan’ yeh watchin’. an’ yeh shouldn’ be down here anyway … if fudge an’ Albus_Dumbledore catch yeh out without permission, Harry_Potter, yeh’ll be in big trouble.’ silent tears were now streaming down Hermione_Granger’s face, but she hid them from Rubeus_Hagrid, bustling around making tea. then, as she picked up the milk bottle to pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek. ‘ron! i – i don’t believe it – it’s scabbers!’Ronald_Weasleygaped at her. ‘what are you talking about?’ Hermione_Granger carried the milk jug over to the table and turned it upside-down. with a frantic squeak, and much scrambling to get back inside, scabbers the rat came sliding out onto the table. ‘scabbers!’ saidRonald_Weasleyblankly. ‘scabbers, what are you doing here?’ he grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the light. scabbers looked dreadful. he was thinner than ever, large tufts of hair had fallen out leaving wide bald patches, and he writhed in ron’s hands as though desperate to free himself. ‘it’s ok, scabbers!’ said ron. ‘no cats! there’s nothing here to hurt you!’ Rubeus_Hagrid suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the window. his normally ruddy face had gone the colour of parchment. ‘they’re comin’ …’ Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger whipped around. a group of men was walking down the diStanley_Shunpiket castle steps. in front was Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore, his silver beard gleaming in the dying sun. next to him trotted Cornelius_Fudge fudge. behind them came the feeble old committee member and the executioner, macnair. ‘yeh gotta go,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. every inch of him was trembling. ‘they mustn’ find yeh here … go on, now …’Ronald_Weasleystuffed scabbers into his pocket and Hermione_Granger picked up the cloak. ‘i’ll let yeh out the back way,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. they followed him to the door into his back garden. Harry_Potter felt strangely unreal, and even more so when he saw Buckbeak a few yards away, tethered to a tree behind Rubeus_Hagrid’s pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to know something was happening. he turned his sharp head from side to side, and pawed the ground nervously. ‘it’s ok, Buckbeak,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid softly. ‘it’s ok …’ he turned to Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘go on,’ he said. ‘get goin’.’ but they didn’t move. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, we can’t –’ ‘we’ll tell them what really happened –’ ‘they can’t kill him –’ ‘go!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid fiercely. ‘it’s bad enough without you lot in trouble an’ all!’ they had no choice. as Hermione_Granger threw the cloak over Harry_Potter and ron, they heard voices at the front of the cabin. Rubeus_Hagrid looked at the place where they had just vanished from sight. ‘go quick,’ he said hoarsely. ‘don’ listen …’ and he strode back into his cabin as someone knocked at the front door. slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger set off silently around Rubeus_Hagrid’s house. as they reached the other side, the front door closed with a sharp snap. ‘please, let’s hurry,’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘i can’t Stanley_Shunpiked it, i can’t bear it …’ they started up the sloping lawn towards the castle. the sun was sinking fast now; the sky had turned to a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the west there was a ruby-red glow.Ronald_Weasleystopped dead. ‘oh, please, ron,’ Hermione_Granger began. ‘it’s scabbers – he won’t – stay put –’Ronald_Weasleywas bent over, trying to keep scabbers in his pocket, but the rat was going berserk; squeaking madly, twisting and flailing, trying to sink his teeth into ron’s hand. ‘scabbers, it’s me, you idiot, it’s ron,’Ronald_Weasleyhissed. they heard a door open behind them and men’s voices. ‘oh ron, please let’s move, they’re going to do it!’ Hermione_Granger breathed. ‘ok – scabbers, stay put –’ they walked forwards; Harry_Potter, like Hermione_Granger, was trying not to listen to the rumble of voices behind them.Ronald_Weasleystopped again. ‘i can’t hold him – scabbers, shut up, everyone’ll hear us –’ the rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough to cover up the sounds drifting from Rubeus_Hagrid’s garden. there was a jumble of indistinct male voices, a silence and then, without warning, the unmistakeable swish and thud of an axe. Hermione_Granger swayed on the spot. ‘they did it!’ she whispered to Harry_Potter. ‘i d-don’t believe it – they did it!’ 