– chapter eleven – the firebolt Harry_Potter didn’t have a very clear idea of how he had managed to get back into the honeydukes cellar, through the tunnel and into the castle once more. all he knew was that the return trip seemed to take no time at all, and that he hardly noticed what he was doing, because his head was still pounding with the conversation he had just heard. why had nobody ever told him? Albus_Dumbledore, Rubeus_Hagrid, mr weasley, Cornelius_Fudge fudge … why hadn’t anyone ever mentioned the fact that Harry_Potter’s parents had died because their best friend had betrayed them?Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger watched Harry_Potter nervously all through dinner, not daring to talk about what they’d overheard, because Percy_Weasley was sitting close by them. when they went upstairs to the crowded common room, it was to find Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had set off half-a-dozen Mundungus_Fletcherbombs in a fit of end-of-term high spirits. Harry_Potter, who didn’t want Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley asking him whether he’d reached hogsmeade or not, sneaked quietly up to the empty dormitory, and headed straight for his bedside cabinet. he pushed his books aside and quickly found what he was looking for – the leather-bound photo album Rubeus_Hagrid had given him two years ago, which was full of wizard pictures of his mother and father. he sat down on his bed, drew the hangings around him, and started turning the pages, searching, until … he stopped on a picture of his parents’ wedding day. there was his father waving up at him, beaming, the untidy black hair Harry_Potter had inherited Stanley_Shunpikeding up in all directions. there was his mother, alight with happiness, arm in arm with his dad. and there … that must be him. their best man … Harry_Potter had never given him a thought before. if he hadn’t known it was the same person, he would never have guessed it was black in this old photograph. his face wasn’t sunken and waxy, but handsome, full of laughter. had he already been working for voldemort when this picture had been taken? was he already planning the deaths of the two people next to him? did he realise he was facing twelve years in azkaban, twelve years which would make him unrecognisable?    but the dementors don’t affect him, Harry_Potter thought, staring into the handsome, laughing face. he doesn’t have to hear my mum screaming if they get too close – Harry_Potter slammed the album shut, reached over and stuffed it back into his cabinet, took off his robes and glasses and got into bed, making sure the hangings were hiding him from view. the dormitory door opened. ‘Harry_Potter?’ said ron’s voice uncertainly. but Harry_Potter lay still, pretending to be asleep. he heardRonald_Weasleyleave again, and rolled over on his back, his eyes wide open. a hatred such as he had never known before was coursing through Harry_Potter like poison. he could see black laughing at him through the darkness, as though somebody had pasted the picture from the album over his eyes. he watched, as though somebody was playing him a piece of film, Sirius_Black black blasting Peter_Pettigrew pettigrew (who resembled Neville_Longbottom longbottom) into a thousand pieces. he could hear (though he had no idea what black’s voice might sound like) a low, excited mutter. ‘it has happened, my lord … James_Potter_I and Lily_J._Potter have made me their secret keeper …’ and then came another voice, laughing shrilly, the same laugh that Harry_Potter heard inside his head whenever the dementors drew near … ‘Harry_Potter, you – you look terrible.’ * Harry_Potter hadn’t got to sleep until daybreak. he had awoken to find the dormitory deserted, dressed and gone down the spiral staircase to a common room that was completely empty except for ron, who was eating a peppermint toad and massaging his stomach, and Hermione_Granger, who had spread her homework over three tables. ‘where is everyone?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘gone! it’s the first day of the holidays, remember?’ said ron, watching Harry_Potter closely. ‘it’s nearly lunchtime, i was going to come and wake you up in a minute.’ Harry_Potter slumped into a chair next to the fire. snow was still falling outside the windows. Crookshanks was spread out in front of the fire like a large, ginger rug. ‘you really don’t look well, you know,’ Hermione_Granger said, peering anxiously into his face. ‘i’m fine,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Harry_Potter, listen,’ said Hermione_Granger, exchanging a look with ron, ‘you must be really upset about what we heard yesterday. but the thing is, you mustn’t go doing anything stupid.’ ‘like what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘like trying to go after black,’ saidRonald_Weasleysharply. Harry_Potter could tell they had rehearsed this conversation while he had been asleep. he didn’t say anything. ‘you won’t, will you, Harry_Potter?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘because black’s not worth dying for,’ said ron. Harry_Potter looked at them. they didn’t seem to underStanley_Shunpiked at all. ‘d’you know what i see and hear every time a dementor gets too near me?’Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger shook their heads, looking apprehensive. ‘i can hear my mum screaming and pleading with voldemort. and if you’d heard your mum screaming like that, just about to be killed, you wouldn’t forget it in a hurry. and if you found out someone who was supposed to be a friend of hers betrayed her and sent voldemort after her –’ ‘there’s nothing you can do!’ said Hermione_Granger, looking stricken. ‘the dementors will catch black and he’ll go back to azkaban and – and serve him right!’ ‘you heard what fudge said. black isn’t affected by azkaban like normal people are. it’s not a punishment for him like it is for the others.’ ‘so what are you saying?’ said ron, looking very tense. ‘you want to – to kill black or something?’ ‘don’t be silly,’ said Hermione_Granger in a paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtony voice. ‘Harry_Potter doesn’t want to kill anyone, do you, Harry_Potter?’ again, Harry_Potter didn’t answer. he didn’t know what he wanted to do. all he knew was that the idea of doing nothing, while black was at liberty, was almost more than he could Stanley_Shunpiked. ‘malfoy knows,’ he said abruptly. ‘remember what he said to me in potions? “if it was me, i’d hunt him down myself … i’d want revenge.”’ ‘you’re going to take malfoy’s advice instead of ours?’ saidRonald_Weasleyfuriously. ‘listen … you know what pettigrew’s mother got back after black had finished with him? dad told me – the order of merlin, first class, and pettigrew’s finger in a box. that was the biggest bit of him they could find. black’s a madman, Harry_Potter, and he’s dangerous –’ ‘malfoy’s dad must have told him,’ said Harry_Potter, ignoring ron. ‘he was right in voldemort’s inner circle –’ ‘say Tom_Riddle, will you?’ interjectedRonald_Weasleyangrily. ‘– so obviously, the malfoys knew black was working for voldemort –’ ‘– and malfoy’d love to see you blown into about a million pieces, like pettigrew! get a grip, malfoy’s just hoping you’ll get yourself killed before he has to play you at quidditch.’ ‘Harry_Potter, please,’ said Hermione_Granger, her eyes now shining with tears, ‘please be sensible. black did a terrible, terrible thing, but d-don’t put yourself in danger, it’s what black wants … oh, Harry_Potter, you’d be playing right into black’s hands if you went looking for him. your mum and dad wouldn’t want you to get hurt, would they? they’d never want you to go looking for black!’ ‘i’ll never know what they’d have wanted because, thanks to black, i’ve never spoken to them,’ said Harry_Potter shortly. there was a silence, in which Crookshanks stretched luxuriously, flexing his claws. ron’s pocket quivered. ‘look,’ said ron, obviously casting around for a change of subject, ‘it’s the holidays! it’s nearly christmas! let’s – let’s go down and see Rubeus_Hagrid. we haven’t visited him for ages!’ ‘no!’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘Harry_Potter isn’t supposed to leave the castle,Ronald_Weasley–’ ‘yeah, let’s go,’ said Harry_Potter, sitting up, ‘and i can ask him how come he never mentioned black when he told me all about my parents!’ further discussion of Sirius_Black black plainly wasn’t whatRonald_Weasleyhad had in mind. ‘or we could have a game of chess,’ he said hastily, ‘or gobstones. Percy_Weasley left a set –’ ‘no, let’s visit Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter firmly. so they got their cloaks from their dormitories and set off through the portrait hole (‘Stanley_Shunpiked and fight, you yellow-bellied mongrels!’), down through the empty castle and out through the oak front doors. they made their way slowly down the lawn, making a shallow trench in the glittering, powdery snow, their socks and the hems of their cloaks soaked and freezing. the forbidden forest looked as though it had been enchanted, each tree smattered with silver, and Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin looked like an iced cake.Ronald_Weasleyknocked, but there was no answer. ‘he’s not out, is he?’ said Hermione_Granger, who was shivering under her cloak.Ronald_Weasleyhad his ear to the door. ‘there’s a weird noise,’ he said. ‘listen – is that Fang?’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger put their ears to the door, too. from inside the cabin came a series of low, throbbing moans. ‘think we’d better go and get someone?’ saidRonald_Weasleynervously. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid!’ called Harry_Potter, thumping the door. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, are you in there?’ there was a sound of heavy footsteps, then the door creaked open. Rubeus_Hagrid stood there with his eyes red and swollen; tears splashing down the front of his leather waistcoat. ‘yeh’ve heard!’ he bellowed, and he flung himself onto Harry_Potter’s neck. Rubeus_Hagrid being at least twice the size of a normal man, this was no laughing matter. Harry_Potter, about to collapse under Rubeus_Hagrid’s weight, was rescued byRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, who each seized Rubeus_Hagrid under an arm and heaved him, Harry_Potter helping, back into the cabin. Rubeus_Hagrid allowed himself to be steered into a chair and slumped over the table, sobbing uncontrollably, his face glazed with tears which dripped down into his tangled beard. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, what is it?’ said Hermione_Granger, aghast. Harry_Potter spotted an official-looking letter lying open on the table. ‘what’s this, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s sobs redoubled, but he shoved the letter towards Harry_Potter, who picked it up and read aloud: dear mr Rubeus_Hagrid, further to our inquiry into the attack by a hippogriff on a student in your class, we have accepted the assurances of professor Albus_Dumbledore that you bear no responsibility for the regrettable incident. ‘well, that’s ok, then, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ said ron, clapping Rubeus_Hagrid on the shoulder. but Rubeus_Hagrid continued to sob, and waved one of his gigantic hands, inviting Harry_Potter to read on. however, we must register our concern about the hippogriff in question. we have decided to uphold the official complaint of mr Lucius_Malfoy malfoy, and this matter will therefore be taken to the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures. the hearing will take place on april 20th, and we ask you to present yourself and your hippogriff at the committee’s offices in london on that date. in the meantime, the hippogriff should be kept tethered and isolated.    yours in fellowship … there followed a list of the school governors. ‘oh,’ said ron. ‘but you said Buckbeak isn’t a bad hippogriff, Rubeus_Hagrid. i bet he’ll get off –’ ‘yeh don’ know them garGoyles at the committee fer the disposal o’ dangerous creatures!’ choked Rubeus_Hagrid, wiping his eyes on his sleeve. ‘they’ve got it in fer interestin’ creatures!’ a sudden sound from the corner of Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin made Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger whip around. Buckbeak the hippogriff was lying in the corner, chomping on something that was oozing blood all over the floor. ‘i couldn’ leave him tied up out there in the snow!’ choked Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘all on his own! at christmas!’ Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger looked at each other. they had never seen eye to eye with Rubeus_Hagrid about what he called ‘interesting creatures’ and other people called ‘terrifying monsters’. on the other hand, there didn’t seem to be any particular harm in Buckbeak. in fact, by Rubeus_Hagrid’s usual Stanley_Shunpikedards, he was positively cute. ‘you’ll have to put up a good strong defence, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger, sitting down and laying a hand on Rubeus_Hagrid’s massive forearm. ‘i’m sure you can prove Buckbeak is safe.’ ‘won’ make no diff’rence!’ sobbed Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘them disposal devils, they’re all in Lucius_Malfoy malfoy’s pocket! scared o’ him! an’ if i lose the case, Buckbeak –’ Rubeus_Hagrid drew his finger swiftly across his throat, then gave a great wail and lurched forwards, his face in his arms. ‘what about Albus_Dumbledore, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s done more’n enough fer me already,’ groaned Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘got enough on his plate what with keepin’ them dementors outta the castle, an’ Sirius_Black black lurkin’ around –’Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger looked quickly at Harry_Potter, as though expecting him to start berating Rubeus_Hagrid for not telling him the truth about black. but Harry_Potter couldn’t bring himself to do it, not now he saw Rubeus_Hagrid so miserable and scared. ‘listen, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ he said, ‘you can’t give up. Hermione_Granger’s right, you just need a good defence. you can call us as witnesses –’ ‘i’m sure i’ve read about a case of hippogriff-baiting,’ said Hermione_Granger  thoughtfully, ‘where the hippogriff got off. i’ll look it up for you, Rubeus_Hagrid, and see exactly what happened.’ Rubeus_Hagrid howled still more loudly. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger looked atRonald_Weasleyto help them. ‘er – shall i make a cup of tea?’ said ron. Harry_Potter stared at him. ‘it’s what my mum does whenever someone’s upset,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered, shrugging. at last, after many more assurances of help, with a steaming mug of tea in front of him, Rubeus_Hagrid blew his nose on a handkerchief the size of a tablecloth and said, ‘yer right. i can’ afford to go ter pieces. gotta pull meself together …’ Fang the boarhound came timidly out from under the table and laid his head on Rubeus_Hagrid’s knee. ‘i’ve not bin meself lately,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, stroking Fang with one hand and mopping his face with the other. ‘worried abou’ Buckbeak, an’ no one likin’ me classes –’ ‘we do like them!’ lied Hermione_Granger at once. ‘yeah, they’re great!’ said ron, crossing his fingers under the table. ‘er – how are the flobberworms?’ ‘dead,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid gloomily. ‘too much lettuce.’ ‘oh, no!’ said ron, his lip twitching. ‘an’ them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an’ all,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, with a sudden shudder. ‘gotta walk past ’em ev’ry time i want a drink in the three broomsticks. ’s like bein’ back in azkaban –’ he fell silent, gulping his tea. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger watched him breathlessly. they had never heard Rubeus_Hagrid talk about his brief spell in azkaban before. after a brief pause, Hermione_Granger said timidly, ‘is it awful in there, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘yeh’ve no idea,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid quietly. ‘never bin anywhere like it. thought i was goin’ mad. kep’ goin’ over horrible stuff in me mind … the day i got expelled from hogwarts … day me dad died … day i had ter let Norberta go …’ his eyes filled with tears. Norberta was the baby dragon Rubeus_Hagrid had once won in a game of cards. ‘yeh can’ really remember who yeh are after a while. an’ yeh can’ see the point o’ livin’ at all. i used ter Hope_Howell i’d jus’ die in me sleep … when they let me out, it was like bein’ born again, ev’rythin’ came floodin’ back, it was the bes’ feelin’ in the world. mind, the dementors weren’t keen on lettin’ me go.’ ‘but you were innocent!’ said Hermione_Granger. Rubeus_Hagrid snorted. ‘think that matters to them? they don’ care. long as they’ve got a couple o’ hundred humans stuck there with ’em, so they can leech all the happiness out of ’em, they don’ give a damn who’s guilty an’ who’s not.’ Rubeus_Hagrid went quiet for a moment, staring into his tea. then he said quietly, ‘thought o’ jus’ letting Buckbeak go … tryin’ ter make him fly away … but how d’yeh explain ter a hippogriff it’s gotta go inter hidin’? an’ – an’ i’m scared o’ breakin’ the law …’ he looked up at them, tears leaking down his face again. ‘i don’ ever want ter go back ter azkaban.’ * the trip to Rubeus_Hagrid’s, though far from fun, had nevertheless had the effectRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger had Hope_Howelld. though Harry_Potter had by no means forgotten about black, he couldn’t brood conStanley_Shunpiketly on revenge if he wanted to help Rubeus_Hagrid win his case against the committee for the disposal of dangerous creatures. he,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger went to the library next day, and returned to the empty common room laden with books which might help prepare a defence for Buckbeak. the three of them sat in front of the roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty volumes about famous cases of marauding beasts, speaking occasionally when they ran across something relevant. ‘here’s something … there was a case in 1722 … but the hippogriff was convicted – urgh, look what they did to it, that’s disgusting –’ ‘this might help, look – a manticore savaged someone in 1296, and they let the manticore off – oh – no, that was only because everyone was too scared to go near it …’ meanwhile, in the rest of the castle, the usual magnificent christmas decorations had been put up, despite the fact that hardly any of the students remained to enjoy them. thick streamers of holly and mistletoe were strung along the corridors, mysterious lights shone from inside every suit of armour and the great hall was filled with its usual twelve christmas trees, glittering with golden stars. a powerful and delicious smell of Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning pervaded the corridors, and by christmas eve, it had grown so strong that even scabbers poked his nose out of the shelter of ron’s pocket to sniff Hope_Howellfully at the air. on christmas morning, Harry_Potter was woken byRonald_Weasleythrowing his pillow at him. ‘oy! presents!’ Harry_Potter reached for his glasses and put them on, squinting through the semi- darkness to the foot of his bed, where a small heap of parcels had appeared.Ronald_Weasleywas already ripping the paper off his own presents. ‘another jumper from mum … maroon again … see if you’ve got one.’ Harry_Potter had. mrs weasley had sent him a scarlet jumper with the gryffindor lion knitted on the front, also a dozen home-baked mince pies, some christmas cake and a box of nut brittle. as he moved all these things aside, he saw a long, thin package lying underneath. ‘what’s that?’ said ron, looking over, a freshly unwrapped pair of maroon socks in his hand. ‘dunno …’ Harry_Potter ripped the parcel open and gasped as a magnificent, gleaming broomstick rolled out onto his bedspread.Ronald_Weasleydropped his socks and jumped off his bed for a closer look. ‘i don’t believe it,’ he said hoarsely. it was a firebolt, identical to the dream broom Harry_Potter had gone to see every day in diagon alley. its handle glittered as he picked it up. he could feel it vibrating, and let go; it hung in mid-air, unsupported, at exactly the right height for him to mount it. his eyes moved from the golden registration number at the top of the handle right down to the perfectly smooth, streamlined birch twigs that made up the tail. ‘who sent it to you?’ saidRonald_Weasleyin a hushed voice. ‘look and see if there’s a card,’ said Harry_Potter.Ronald_Weasleyripped apart the firebolt’s wrappings. ‘nothing! blimey, who’d spend that much on you?’ ‘well,’ said Harry_Potter, feeling stunned, ‘i’m betting it wasn’t the dursleys.’ ‘i bet it was Albus_Dumbledore,’ said ron, now walking round and round the firebolt, taking in every glorious inch. ‘he sent you the invisibility cloak anonymously …’ ‘that was my dad’s, though,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Albus_Dumbledore was just passing it on to me. he wouldn’t spend hundreds of galleons on me. he can’t go giving students stuff like this –’ ‘that’s why he wouldn’t say it was from him!’ said ron. ‘in case some git like malfoy said it was favouritism. hey, Harry_Potter –’Ronald_Weasleygave a great whoop of laughter, ‘malfoy! wait ’til he sees you on this! he’ll be sick as a pig! this is an international-Stanley_Shunpikedard broom, this is!’ ‘i can’t believe this,’ Harry_Potter muttered, running a hand along the firebolt, whileRonald_Weasleysank onto Harry_Potter’s bed, laughing his head off at the thought of malfoy. ‘who –?’ ‘i know,’ said ron, controlling himself. ‘i know who it could’ve been – lupin!’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter, now starting to laugh himself. ‘lupin? listen, if he had this much gold, he’d be able to buy himself some new robes.’ ‘yeah, but he likes you,’ said ron. ‘and he was away when your nimbus got smashed, and he might’ve heard about it and decided to visit diagon alley and get this for you –’ ‘what d’you mean, he was away?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he was ill when i was playing in that match.’ ‘well, he wasn’t in the hospital wing,’ said ron. ‘i was there, cleaning out the bedpans on that detention from snape, remember?’ Harry_Potter frowned at ron. ‘i can’t see lupin affording something like this.’ ‘what’re you two laughing about?’ Hermione_Granger had just come in, wearing her dressing-gown and carrying Crookshanks, who was looking very grumpy, with a string of tinsel tied around his neck. ‘don’t bring him in here!’ said ron, hurriedly snatching scabbers from the depths of his bed and stowing him in his pyjama pocket. but Hermione_Granger wasn’t listening. she dropped Crookshanks onto Seamus_Finnigan’s empty bed and stared, open-mouthed, at the firebolt. ‘oh, Harry_Potter! who sent you that?’ ‘no idea,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘there wasn’t a card or anything with it.’ to his great surprise, Hermione_Granger did not appear either excited or intrigued by this news. on the contrary, her face fell, and she bit her lip. ‘what’s the matter with you?’ said ron. ‘i don’t know,’ said Hermione_Granger slowly, ‘but it’s a bit odd, isn’t it? i mean, this is supposed to be quite a good broom, isn’t it?’Ronald_Weasleysighed exasperatedly. ‘it’s the best broom there is, Hermione_Granger,’ he said. ‘so it must’ve been really expensive …’ ‘probably cost more than all the slytherins’ brooms put together,’ saidRonald_Weasleyhappily. ‘well … who’d send Harry_Potter something as expensive as that, and not even tell him they’d sent it?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘who cares?’ said ron, impatiently. ‘listen, Harry_Potter, can i have a go on it? can i?’ ‘i don’t think anyone should ride that broom just yet!’ said Hermione_Granger shrilly. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleylooked at her. ‘what d’you think Harry_Potter’s going to do with it – sweep the floor?’ said ron. but before Hermione_Granger could answer, Crookshanks sprang from Seamus_Finnigan’s bed, right at ron’s chest. ‘get – him – out – of – here!’Ronald_Weasleybellowed, as Crookshanks’s claws ripped his pyjamas and scabbers attempted a wild escape over his shoulder.Ronald_Weasleyseized scabbers by the tail and aimed a misjudged kick at Crookshanks which hit the trunk at the end of Harry_Potter’s bed, knocking it over and causingRonald_Weasleyto hop on the spot, howling with pain. Crookshanks’s fur suddenly stood on end. a shrill, tinny whistling was filling the room. the pocket sneakoscope had become dislodged from uncle Vernon_Dursley’s old socks and was whirling and gleaming on the floor. ‘i forgot about that!’ Harry_Potter said, bending down and picking up the sneakoscope. ‘i never wear those socks if i can help it …’ the sneakoscope whirled and whistled in his palm. Crookshanks was hissing and spitting at it. ‘you’d better take that cat out of here, Hermione_Granger,’ saidRonald_Weasleyfuriously; he was sitting on Harry_Potter’s bed nursing his toe. ‘can’t you shut that thing up?’ he added to Harry_Potter, as Hermione_Granger strode out of the room, Crookshanks’s yellow eyes still fixed maliciously on ron. Harry_Potter stuffed the sneakoscope back inside the socks and threw it back into his trunk. all that could be heard now was ron’s stifled moans of pain and rage. scabbers was huddled in ron’s hands. it had been a while since Harry_Potter had seen him out of ron’s pocket, and he was unpleasantly surprised to see that scabbers, once so fat, was now very skinny; patches of fur seemed to have fallen out, too. ‘he’s not looking too good, is he?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘it’s stress!’ said ron. ‘he’d be fine if that stupid great furball left him alone!’ but Harry_Potter, remembering what the woman at the Magic_goblinal menagerie had said about rats only living three years, couldn’t help feeling that unless scabbers had powers he had never revealed, he was reaching the end of his life. and despite ron’s frequent complaints that scabbers was both boring and useless, he was sureRonald_Weasleywould be very miserable if scabbers died. christmas spirit was definitely thin on the ground in the gryffindor common room that morning. Hermione_Granger had shut Crookshanks in her dormitory, but was furious withRonald_Weasleyfor trying to kick him;Ronald_Weasleywas still fuming about Crookshanks’s fresh attempt to eat scabbers. Harry_Potter gave up trying to make them talk to each other, and devoted himself to examining the firebolt, which he had brought down to the common room with him. for some reason this seemed to annoy Hermione_Granger as well; she didn’t say anything, but she kept looking darkly at the broom as though it, too, had been criticising her cat. at lunchtime they went down to the great hall, to find that the house tables had been moved against the walls again, and that a single table, set for twelve, stood in the middle of the room. professors Albus_Dumbledore, Minerva_McGonagall, snape, sprout and flitwick were there, along with filch, the caretaker, who had taken off his usual brown coat and was wearing a very old and rather mouldy- looking tail coat. there were only three other students: two extremely nervous-looking first-years and a sullen-faced slytherin fifth-year. ‘merry christmas!’ said Albus_Dumbledore, as Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger approached the table. ‘as there are so few of us, it seemed foolish to use the house tables … sit down, sit down!’ Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger sat down side by side at the end of the table. ‘crackers!’ said Albus_Dumbledore enthusiastically, offering the end of a large silver one to snape, who took it reluctantly and tugged. with a bang like a gunshot, the cracker flew apart to reveal a large, pointed witch’s hat topped with a stuffed vulture. Harry_Potter, remembering the boggart, caught ron’s eye and they both grinned; snape’s mouth thinned and he pushed the hat towards Albus_Dumbledore, who swapped it for his wizard’s hat at once. ‘tuck in!’ he advised the table, beaming around. as Harry_Potter was helping himself to roast potatoes, the doors of the great hall opened again. it was professor trelawney, gliding towards them as though on wheels. she had put on a green sequined dress in honour of the occasion, making her look more than ever like a glittering, oversize dragonfly. ‘SyWilliam_Weasley_Trelawney, this is a pleasant surprise!’ said Albus_Dumbledore, Stanley_Shunpikeding up. ‘i have been crystal-gazing, headmaster,’ said professor trelawney, in her mistiest, most faraway voice, ‘and to my astonishment, i saw myself abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join you. who am i to refuse the promptings of fate? i at once hastened from my tower, and i do beg you to forgive my lateness …’ ‘certainly, certainly,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. ‘let me draw you up a chair –’ and he did indeed draw a chair in mid-air with his wand, which revolved for a few seconds before falling with a thud between professors snape and Minerva_McGonagall. professor trelawney, however, did not sit down; her enormous eyes had been roving around the table, and she suddenly uttered a kind of soft scream. ‘i dare not, headmaster! if i join the table, we shall be thirteen! nothing could be more unlucky! never forget that when thirteen dine together, the first to rise will be the first to die!’ ‘we’ll risk it, SyWilliam_Weasley_Trelawney,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall impatiently. ‘do sit down, the turkey’s getting stone cold.’ professor trelawney hesitated, then lowered herself into the empty chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched tight, as though expecting a thunderbolt to hit the table. professor Minerva_McGonagall poked a large spoon into the nearest tureen. ‘tripe, SyWilliam_Weasley_Trelawney?’ professor trelawney ignored her. eyes open again, she looked around once more and said, ‘but where is dear professor lupin?’ ‘i’m afraid the poor fellow is ill again,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, indicating that everybody should start serving themselves. ‘most unfortunate that it should happen on christmas day.’ ‘but surely you already knew that, SyWilliam_Weasley_Trelawney?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, her eyebrows raised. professor trelawney gave professor Minerva_McGonagall a very cold look. ‘certainly i knew, Minerva_McGonagall,’ she said quietly. ‘but one does not parade the fact that one is all-knowing. i frequently act as though i am not possessed of the inner eye, so as not to make others nervous.’ ‘that explains a great deal,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall tartly. professor trelawney’s voice suddenly became a good deal less misty. ‘if you must know, Minerva_McGonagall, i have seen that poor professor lupin will not be with us for very long. he seems aware, himself, that his time is short. he positively fled when i offered to crystal-gaze for him –’ ‘imagine that,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall drily. ‘i doubt,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, in a cheerful but slightly raised voice, which put an end to professor Minerva_McGonagall and professor trelawney’s conversation, ‘that professor lupin is in any immediate danger. Severus_Snape, you’ve made the potion for him again?’ ‘yes, headmaster,’ said snape. ‘good,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘then he should be up and about in no time … Derek, have you had any of these chipolatas? they’re excellent.’ the first-year boy went furiously red on being addressed directly by Albus_Dumbledore, and took the platter of sausages with trembling hands. professor trelawney behaved almost normally until the very end of christmas dinner, two hours later. full to bursting with christmas dinner and still wearing their cracker hats, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleygot up first from the table and she shrieked loudly. ‘my dears! which of you left his seat first? which?’ ‘dunno,’ said ron, looking uneasily at Harry_Potter. ‘i doubt it will make much difference,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall coldly, ‘unless a mad axe-man is waiting outside the doors to slaughter the first into the entrance hall.’ evenRonald_Weasleylaughed. professor trelawney looked highly affronted. ‘coming?’ Harry_Potter said to Hermione_Granger. ‘no,’ Hermione_Granger muttered. ‘i want a quick word with professor Minerva_McGonagall.’ ‘probably trying to see if she can take any more classes,’ yawnedRonald_Weasleyas they made their way into the entrance hall, which was completely devoid of mad axe-men. when they reached the portrait hole they found sir Cadogan enjoying a christmas party with a couple of monks, several previous headmasters of hogwarts and his fat pony. he pushed up his visor and toasted them with a flagon of mead. ‘merry – hic – christmas! password?’ ‘scurvy cur,’ said ron. ‘and the same to you, sir!’ roared sir Cadogan, as the painting swung forward to admit them. Harry_Potter went straight up to the dormitory, collected his firebolt and the broomstick servicing kit Hermione_Granger had given him for his birthday, brought them downstairs and tried to find something to do to the firebolt; however, there were no bent twigs to clip, and the handle was so shiny already it seemed pointless to polish it. he andRonald_Weasleysimply sat admiring it from every angle, until the portrait hole opened, and Hermione_Granger came in, accompanied by professor Minerva_McGonagall. though professor Minerva_McGonagall was head of gryffindor house, Harry_Potter had only seen her in the common room once before, and that had been to make a very grave announcement. he andRonald_Weasleystared at her, both holding the firebolt. Hermione_Granger walked around them, sat down, picked up the nearest book and hid her face behind it. ‘so that’s it, is it?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall beadily, walking over to the fireside and staring at the firebolt. ‘miss granger has just informed me that you have been sent a broomstick, potter.’ Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleylooked around at Hermione_Granger. they could see her forehead reddening over the top of her book, which was upside-down. ‘may i?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, but she didn’t wait for an answer before pulling the firebolt out of their hands. she examined it carefully from handle to twig-ends. ‘hmm. and there was no note at all, potter? no card? no message of any kind?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter blankly. ‘i see …’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘well, i’m afraid i will have to take this, potter.’ ‘w-what?’ said Harry_Potter, scrambling to his feet. ‘why?’ ‘it will need to be checked for jinxes,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘of course, i’m no expert, but i daresay madam hooch and professor flitwick will strip it down –’ ‘strip it down?’ repeated ron, as though professor Minerva_McGonagall was mad. ‘it shouldn’t take more than a few weeks,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘you will have it back if we are sure it is jinx-free.’ ‘there’s nothing wrong with it!’ said Harry_Potter, his voice shaking slightly. ‘honestly, professor –’ ‘you can’t know that, potter,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, quite kindly, ‘not until you’ve flown it, at any rate, and i’m afraid that is out of the question until we are certain that it has not been tampered with. i shall keep you informed.’ professor Minerva_McGonagall turned on her heel and carried the firebolt out of the portrait hole, which closed behind her. Harry_Potter stood staring after her, the tin of high-finish polish still clutched in his hands. ron, however, rounded on Hermione_Granger. ‘what did you go running to Minerva_McGonagall for?’ Hermione_Granger threw her book aside. she was still pink in the face, but stood up and facedRonald_Weasleydefiantly. ‘because i thought – and professor Minerva_McGonagall agrees with me – that that broom was probably sent to Harry_Potter by Sirius_Black black!’ 