– chapter seven – the boggart in the wardrobe malfoy didn’t reappear in classes until late on thursday morning, when the slytherins and gryffindors were halfway through double potions. he swaggered into the Mundungus_Fletchereon, his right arm covered in bandages and bound up in a sling, acting, in Harry_Potter’s opinion, as though he was the heroic survivor of some dreadful battle. ‘how is it, Draco_Malfoy?’ simpered Pansy_Parkinson. ‘does it hurt much?’ ‘yeah,’ said malfoy, putting on a brave sort of grimace. but Harry_Potter saw him wink at Crabbe and Goyle when Pansy_Parkinson had looked away. ‘settle down, settle down,’ said professor snape idly. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley scowled at each other; snape wouldn’t have said ‘settle down’ if they’d walked in late, he’d have given them detention. but malfoy had always been able to get away with anything in snape’s classes; snape was head of slytherin house, and generally favoured his own students before all others. they were making a new potion today, a shrinking solution. malfoy set up his cauldron right next to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley so that they were preparing their ingredients on the same table. ‘sir,’ malfoy called, ‘sir, i’ll need help cutting up these daisy roots, because of my arm –’ ‘weasley, cut up malfoy’s roots for him,’ said snape, without looking up. Ronald_Weasley went brick red. ‘there’s nothing wrong with your arm,’ he hissed at malfoy. malfoy smirked across the table. ‘weasley, you heard professor snape, cut up these roots.’ Ronald_Weasley seized his knife, pulled malfoy’s roots towards him and began to chop them roughly, so that they were all different sizes. ‘professor,’ drawled malfoy, ‘weasley’s mutilating my roots, sir.’ snape approached their table, stared down his hooked nose at the roots, then gave Ronald_Weasley an unpleasant smile from beneath his long, greasy black hair.    ‘change roots with malfoy, weasley.’ ‘but sir –!’ Ronald_Weasley had spent the last quarter of an hour carefully shredding his own roots into exactly equal pieces. ‘now,’ said snape in his most dangerous voice. Ronald_Weasley shoved his own beautifully cut roots across the table at malfoy, then took up the knife again. ‘and, sir, i’ll need this shrivelfig skinned,’ said malfoy, his voice full of malicious laughter. ‘potter, you can skin malfoy’s shrivelfig,’ said snape, giving Harry_Potter the look of loathing he always reserved just for him. Harry_Potter took malfoy’s shrivelfig as Ronald_Weasley set about trying to repair the damage to the roots he now had to use. Harry_Potter skinned the shrivelfig as fast as he could and flung it back across the table at malfoy without speaking. malfoy was smirking more broadly than ever. ‘seen your pal Rubeus_Hagrid lately?’ he asked them quietly. ‘none of your business,’ said Ronald_Weasley jerkily, without looking up. ‘i’m afraid he won’t be a teacher much longer,’ said malfoy, in a tone of mock sorrow. ‘father’s not very happy about my injury –’ ‘keep talking, malfoy, and i’ll give you a real injury,’ snarled Ronald_Weasley ‘– he’s complained to the school governors. and to the ministry of magic. father’s got a lot of influence, you know. and a lasting injury like this –’ he gave a huge, fake sigh, ‘who knows if my arm’ll ever be the same again?’ ‘so that’s why you’re putting it on,’ said Harry_Potter, accidentally beheading a dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. ‘to try and get Rubeus_Hagrid sacked.’ ‘well,’ said malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, ‘partly, potter. but there are other benefits, too. weasley, slice my caterpillars for me.’ a few cauldrons away, Neville_Longbottom was in trouble. Neville_Longbottom regularly went to pieces in potions lessons; it was his worst subject, and his great fear of professor snape made things ten times worse. his potion, which was supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned – ‘orange, longbottom,’ said snape, ladling some up and allowing it to splash back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see. ‘orange. tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? didn’t you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one rat spleen was needed? didn’t i state plainly that a dash of leech juice would suffice? what do i have to do to make you understand, longbottom?’ Neville_Longbottom was pink and trembling. he looked as though he was on the verge of tears. ‘please, sir,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘please, i could help Neville_Longbottom put it right –’ ‘i don’t remember asking you to show off, miss granger,’ said snape coldly, and Hermione_Granger went as pink as Neville_Longbottom. ‘longbottom, at the end of this lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what happens. perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly.’ snape moved away, leaving Neville_Longbottom breathless with fear. ‘help me!’ he moaned to Hermione_Granger. ‘hey, Harry_Potter,’ said Seamus_Finnigan, leaning over to borrow Harry_Potter’s brass scales, ‘have you heard? daily prophet this morning – they reckon Sirius_Black’s been sighted.’ ‘where?’ said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley quickly. on the other side of the table, malfoy looked up, listening closely. ‘not too far from here,’ said Seamus_Finnigan, who looked excited. ‘it was a muggle who saw him. ’course, she didn’t really understand. the muggles think he’s just an ordinary criminal, don’t they? so she ’phoned the telephone hotline. by the time the ministry of magic got there, he was gone.’ ‘not too far from here …’ Ronald_Weasley repeated, looking significantly at Harry_Potter. he turned around and saw malfoy watching closely. ‘what, malfoy? need something else skinning?’ but malfoy’s eyes were shining malevolently, and they were fixed on Harry_Potter. he leant across the table. ‘thinking of trying to catch black single-handed, potter?’ ‘yeah, that’s right,’ said Harry_Potter offhandedly. malfoy’s thin mouth was curving in a mean smile. ‘of course, if it was me,’ he said quietly, ‘i’d have done something before now. i wouldn’t be staying in school like a good boy, i’d be out there looking for him.’ ‘what are you talking about, malfoy?’ said Ronald_Weasley roughly. ‘don’t you know, potter?’ breathed malfoy, his pale eyes narrowed. ‘know what?’ malfoy let out a low, sneering laugh. ‘maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,’ he said. ‘want to leave it to the dementors, do you? but if it was me, i’d want revenge. i’d hunt him down myself.’ ‘what are you talking about?’ said Harry_Potter angrily, but at that moment snape called, ‘you should have finished adding your ingredients by now. this potion needs to stew before it can be drunk; clear away while it simmers and then we’ll test longbottom’s …’ Crabbe and Goyle laughed openly, watching Neville_Longbottom sweat as he stirred his potion feverishly. Hermione_Granger was muttering instructions to him out of the corner of her mouth, so that snape wouldn’t see. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley packed away their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and ladles in the stone basin in the corner. ‘what did malfoy mean?’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley as he stuck his hands under the icy jet that poured from a garGoyle’s mouth. ‘why would i want revenge on black? he hasn’t done anything to me – yet.’ ‘he’s making it up,’ said Ronald_Weasley savagely, ‘he’s trying to make you do something stupid …’ the end of the lesson in sight, snape strode over to Neville_Longbottom, who was cowering by his cauldron. ‘everyone gather round,’ said snape, his black eyes glittering, ‘and watch what happens to longbottom’s toad. if he has managed to produce a shrinking solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. if, as i don’t doubt, he has done it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned.’ the gryffindors watched fearfully. the slytherins looked excited. snape picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand, and dipped a small spoon into Neville_Longbottom’s potion, which was now green. he trickled a few drops down Trevor’s throat. there was a moment of hushed silence, in which Trevor gulped; then there was a small pop, and Trevor the tadpole was wriggling in snape’s palm. the gryffindors burst into applause. snape, looking sour, pulled a small bottle from the pocket of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor and he reappeared suddenly, fully grown. ‘five points from gryffindor,’ said snape, which wiped the sMiles_Bletchley from every face. ‘i told you not to help him, miss granger. class dismissed.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger climbed the steps to the entrance hall. Harry_Potter was still thinking about what malfoy had said, while Ronald_Weasley was seething about snape. ‘five points from gryffindor because the potion was all right! why didn’t you lie, Hermione_Granger? you should’ve said Neville_Longbottom did it all by himself!’ Hermione_Granger didn’t answer. Ronald_Weasley looked around. ‘where is she?’ Harry_Potter turned, too. they were at the top of the steps now, watching the rest of the class pass them, heading for the great hall and lunch. ‘she was right behind us,’ said Ronald_Weasley frowning. malfoy passed them, walking between Crabbe and Goyle. he smirked at Harry_Potter and disappeared. ‘there she is,’ said Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger was panting slightly, hurrying up the stairs; one hand was clutching her bag, the other seemed to be tucking something down the front of her robes. ‘how did you do that?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘what?’ said Hermione_Granger, joining them. ‘one minute you were right behind us, and next moment, you were back at the bottom of the stairs again.’ ‘what?’ Hermione_Granger looked slightly confused. ‘oh – i had to go back for something. oh, no …’ a seam had split on Hermione_Granger’s bag. Harry_Potter wasn’t surprised; he could see that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books. ‘why are you carrying all these around with you?’ Ronald_Weasley asked her. ‘you know how many subjects i’m taking,’ said Hermione_Granger breathlessly. ‘couldn’t hold these for me, could you?’ ‘but –’ Ronald_Weasley was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at the covers – ‘you haven’t got any of these subjects today. it’s only defence against the dark arts this afternoon.’ ‘oh, yes,’ said Hermione_Granger vaguely, but she packed all the books back into her bag just the same. ‘i Hope_Howell there’s something good for lunch, i’m starving,’ she added, and she marched off towards the great hall. ‘d’you get the feeling Hermione_Granger’s not telling us something?’ Ronald_Weasley asked Harry_Potter. * professor lupin wasn’t there when they arrived at his first defence against the dark arts lesson. they all sat down, took out their books, quills and parchment, and were talking when he finally entered the room. lupin smiled vaguely and placed his tatty old briefcase on the teacher’s desk. he was as shabby as ever but looked healthier than he had on the train, as though he had had a few square meals. ‘good afternoon,’ he said. ‘would you please put all your books back in your bags. today’s will be a practical lesson. you will only need your wands.’ a few curious looks were exchanged as the class put away their books. they had never had a practical defence against the dark arts before, unless you counted the memorable class last year when their old teacher had brought a cageful of pixies to class and set them loose. ‘right then,’ said professor lupin, when everyone was ready, ‘if you’d follow me.’ puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and followed professor lupin out of the classroom. he led them along the deserted corridor and around a corner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the poltergeist, who was floating upside-down in mid-air and stuffing the nearest keyhole with chewing gum. Peeves didn’t look up until professor lupin was two feet away, then he wiggled his curly-toed feet and broke into song. ‘loony, loopy lupin,’ Peeves sang. ‘loony, loopy lupin, loony, loopy lupin –’ rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, Peeves usually showed some respect towards the teachers. everyone looked quickly at professor lupin to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he was still smiling. ‘i’d take that gum out of the keyhole, if i were you, Peeves,’ he said pleasantly. ‘mr filch won’t be able to get in to his brooms.’ filch was the hogwarts caretaker, a bad-tempered, failed wizard who waged a constant war against the students and, indeed, Peeves. however, Peeves paid no attention to professor lupin’s words, except to blow a loud wet raspberry. professor lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand. ‘this is a useful little spell,’ he told the class over his shoulder. ‘please watch closely.’ he raised the wand to shoulder height, said ‘waddiwasi!’ and pointed it at Peeves. with the force of a bullet, the wad of chewing gum shot out of the keyhole and straight down Peeves’s left nostril; he whirled right way up and zoomed away, cursing. ‘cool, sir!’ said Dean_Thomas in amazement. ‘thank you, Dean_Thomas,’ said professor lupin, putting his wand away again. ‘shall we proceed?’ they set off again, the class looking at shabby professor lupin with increased respect. he led them down a second corridor and stopped, right outside the staff-room door. ‘inside, please,’ said professor lupin, opening it and standing back. the staff room, a long, panelled room full of old, mismatched chairs, was empty except for one teacher. professor snape was sitting in a low armchair, and he looked around as the class filed in. his eyes were glittering and there was a nasty sneer playing around his mouth. as professor lupin came in and made to close the door behind him, snape said, ‘leave it open, lupin. i’d rather not witness this.’ he got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing behind him. at the doorway he turned on his heel and said, ‘possibly no one’s warned you, lupin, but this class contains Neville_Longbottom. i would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. not unless miss granger is hissing instructions in his ear.’ Neville_Longbottom went scarlet. Harry_Potter glared at snape; it was bad enough that he bullied Neville_Longbottom in his own classes, let alone doing it in front of other teachers. professor lupin had raised his eyebrows. ‘i was hoping that Neville_Longbottom would assist me with the first stage of the operation,’ he said, ‘and i am sure he will perform it admirably.’ Neville_Longbottom’s face went, if possible, even redder. snape’s lip curled, but he left, shutting the door with a snap. ‘now, then,’ said professor lupin, beckoning the class towards the end of the room, where there was nothing except an old wardrobe in which the teachers kept their spare robes. as professor lupin went to stand next to it, the wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, banging off the wall. ‘nothing to worry about,’ said professor lupin calmly, as a few people jumped backwards in alarm. ‘there’s a boggart in there.’ most people seemed to feel that this was something to worry about. Neville_Longbottom gave professor lupin a look of pure terror, and Seamus_Finnigan eyed the now rattling doorknob apprehensively. ‘boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces,’ said professor lupin. ‘wardrobes, the gap beneath beds, the cupboards under sinks – i once met one that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock. this one moved in yesterday afternoon, and i asked the headmaster if the staff would leave it to give my third-years some practice. ‘so, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?’ Hermione_Granger put up her hand. ‘it’s a shape-shifter,’ she said. ‘it can take the shape of whatever it thinks will frighten us most.’ ‘couldn’t have put it better myself,’ said professor lupin, and Hermione_Granger glowed. ‘so the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet assumed a form. he does not yet know what will frighten the person on the other side of the door. nobody knows what a boggart looks like when he is alone, but when i let him out, he will immediately become whatever each of us most fears. ‘this means,’ said professor lupin, choosing to ignore Neville_Longbottom’s small splutter of terror, ‘that we have a huge advantage over the boggart before we begin. have you spotted it, Harry_Potter?’ trying to answer a question with Hermione_Granger next to him, bobbing up and down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very off-putting, but Harry_Potter had a go. ‘er – because there are so many of us, it won’t know what shape it should be?’ ‘precisely,’ said professor lupin, and Hermione_Granger put her hand down looking a little disappointed. ‘it’s always best to have company when you’re dealing with a boggart. he becomes confused. which should he become, a headless corpse or a flesh-eating slug? i once saw a boggart make that very mistake – tried to frighten two people at once and turned himself into half a slug. not remotely frightening. ‘the charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it requires force of mind. you see, the thing that really finishes a boggart is laughter. what you need to do is force it to assume a shape that you find amusing. ‘we will practise the charm without wands first. after me, please … riddikulus!’ ‘riddikulus!’ said the class together. ‘good,’ said professor lupin. ‘very good. but that was the easy part, i’m afraid. you see, the word alone is not enough. and this is where you come in, Neville_Longbottom.’ the wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville_Longbottom, who walked forward as though he was heading for the gallows. ‘right, Neville_Longbottom,’ said professor lupin. ‘first things first: what would you say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?’ Neville_Longbottom’s lips moved, but no noise came out. ‘didn’t catch that, Neville_Longbottom, sorry,’ said professor lupin cheerfully. Neville_Longbottom looked around rather wildly, as though begging someone to help him, then said, in barely more than a whisper, ‘professor snape.’ nearly everyone laughed. even Neville_Longbottom grinned apologetically. professor lupin, however, looked thoughtful. ‘professor snape … hmmm … Neville_Longbottom, i believe you live with your grandmother?’ ‘er – yes,’ said Neville_Longbottom nervously. ‘but – i don’t want the boggart to turn into her, either.’ ‘no, no, you misunderstand me,’ said professor lupin, now smiling. ‘i wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually wears?’ Neville_Longbottom looked startled, but said, ‘well … always the same hat. a tall one with a stuffed vulture on top. and a long dress … green, normally … and sometimes a fox-fur scarf.’ ‘and a handbag?’ prompted professor lupin. ‘a big red one,’ said Neville_Longbottom. ‘right then,’ said professor lupin. ‘can you picture those clothes very clearly, Neville_Longbottom? can you see them in your mind’s eye?’ ‘yes,’ said Neville_Longbottom uncertainly, plainly wondering what was coming next. ‘when the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville_Longbottom, and sees you, it will assume the form of professor snape,’ said lupin. ‘and you will raise your wand – thus – and cry “riddikulus” – and concentrate hard on your grandmother’s clothes. if all goes well, professor boggart snape will be forced into that vulture-topped hat, that green dress, that big red handbag.’ there was a great shout of laughter. the wardrobe wobbled more violently. ‘if Neville_Longbottom is successful, the boggart is likely to turn his attention to each of us in turn,’ said professor lupin. ‘i would like all of you to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imagine how you might force it to look comical …’ the room went quiet. Harry_Potter thought … what scared him most in the world? his first thought was Tom_Riddle – a voldemort returned to full strength. but before he had even started to plan a possible counter-attack on a boggart-voldemort, a horrible image came floating to the surface of his mind … a rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a black cloak … a long, rattling breath from an unseen mouth … then a cold so penetrating it felt like drowning … Harry_Potter shivered, then looked around, hoping no one had noticed. many people had their eyes shut tight. Ronald_Weasley was muttering to himself, ‘take its legs off.’ Harry_Potter was sure he knew what that was about. ron’s greatest fear was spiders. ‘everyone ready?’ said professor lupin. Harry_Potter felt a lurch of fear. he wasn’t ready. how could you make a dementor less frightening? but he didn’t want to ask for more time; everyone else was nodding and rolling up their sleeves. ‘Neville_Longbottom, we’re going to back away,’ said professor lupin. ‘let you have a clear field, all right? i’ll call the next person forward … everyone back, now, so Neville_Longbottom can get a clear shot –’ they all retreated, backing against the walls, leaving Neville_Longbottom alone beside the wardrobe. he looked pale and frightened, but he had pushed up the sleeves of his robes and was holding his wand ready. ‘on the count of three, Neville_Longbottom,’ said professor lupin, who was pointing his own wand at the handle of the wardrobe. ‘one – two – three – now!’ a jet of sparks shot from the end of professor lupin’s wand and hit the doorknob. the wardrobe burst open. hook-nosed and menacing, professor snape stepped out, his eyes flashing at Neville_Longbottom. Neville_Longbottom backed away, his wand up, mouthing wordlessly. snape was bearing down upon him, reaching inside his robes. ‘r-r-riddikulus!’ squeaked Neville_Longbottom. there was a noise like a whip-crack. snape stumbled; he was wearing a long, lace-trimmed dress and a towering hat topped with a moth-eaten vulture, and swinging a huge crimson handbag from his hand. there was a roar of laughter; the boggart paused, confused, and professor lupin shouted, ‘Parvati_Patil! forward!’ Parvati_Patil walked forward, her face set. snape rounded on her. there was another crack, and where he had stood was a blood-stained, bandaged mummy; its sightless face was turned to Parvati_Patil and it began to walk towards her, very slowly, dragging its feet, its stiff arms rising – ‘riddikulus!’ cried Parvati_Patil. a bandage unravelled at the mummy’s feet; it became entangled, fell face forwards and its head rolled off. ‘Seamus_Finnigan!’ roared professor lupin. Seamus_Finnigan darted past Parvati_Patil. crack! where the mummy had been was a woman with floor-length black hair and a skeletal, green-tinged face – a banshee. she opened her mouth wide, and an unearthly sound filled the room, a long, Wailing_Widow shriek which made the hair on Harry_Potter’s head stand on end – ‘riddikulus!’ shouted Seamus_Finnigan. the banshee made a rasping noise and clutched her throat; her voice was gone. crack! the banshee turned into a rat, which chased its tail in a circle, then – crack! – became a rattlesnake, which slithered and writhed before – crack! – becoming a single, Bloody_Baron eyeball. ‘it’s confused!’ shouted lupin. ‘we’re getting there! Dean_Thomas!’ Dean_Thomas hurried forward. crack! the eyeball became a severed hand, which flipped over, and began to creep along the floor like a crab. ‘riddikulus!’ yelled Dean_Thomas. there was a snap, and the hand was trapped in a mousetrap. ‘excellent! Ronald_Weasley you next!’ Ronald_Weasley leapt forward. ‘crack!’ quite a few people screamed. a giant spider, six feet tall and covered in hair, was advancing on Ronald_Weasley clicking its Irma_Pincers menacingly. for a moment, Harry_Potter thought Ronald_Weasley had frozen. then – ‘riddikulus!’ bellowed Ronald_Weasley and the spider’s legs vanished. it rolled over and over; Lavender_Brown squealed and ran out of its way and it came to a halt at Harry_Potter’s feet. he raised his wand, ready, but – ‘here!’ shouted professor lupin suddenly, hurrying forward. crack! the legless spider had vanished. for a second, everyone looked wildly around to see where it was. then they saw a silvery white orb hanging in the air in front of lupin, who said ‘riddikulus!’ almost lazily. crack! ‘forward, Neville_Longbottom, and finish him off!’ said lupin, as the boggart landed on the floor as a cockroach. crack! snape was back. this time Neville_Longbottom charged forward looking determined. ‘riddikulus!’ he shouted, and they had a split second’s view of snape in his lacy dress before Neville_Longbottom let out a great ‘ha!’ of laughter, and the boggart exploded, burst into a thousand tiny wisps of smoke, and was gone. ‘excellent!’ cried professor lupin, as the class broke into applause. ‘excellent, Neville_Longbottom. well done, everyone. let me see … five points to gryffindor for every person to tackle the boggart – ten for Neville_Longbottom because he did it twice – and five each to Hermione_Granger and Harry_Potter.’ ‘but i didn’t do anything,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you and Hermione_Granger answered my questions correctly at the start of the class, Harry_Potter,’ lupin said lightly. ‘very well, everyone, an excellent lesson. homework, kindly read the chapter on boggarts and summarise it for me … to be handed in on monday. that will be all.’ talking excitedly, the class left the staff room. Harry_Potter, however, wasn’t feeling cheerful. professor lupin had deliberately stopped him tackling the boggart. why? was it because he’d seen Harry_Potter collapse on the train, and thought he wasn’t up to much? had he thought Harry_Potter would pass out again? but no one else seemed to have noticed anything. ‘did you see me take that banshee?’ shouted Seamus_Finnigan. ‘and the hand!’ said Dean_Thomas, waving his own around. ‘and snape in that hat!’ ‘and my mummy!’ ‘i wonder why professor lupin’s frightened of crystal balls?’ said Lavender_Brown thoughtfully. ‘that was the best defence against the dark arts lesson we’ve ever had, wasn’t it?’ said Ronald_Weasley excitedly, as they made their way back to the classroom to get their bags. ‘he seems a very good teacher,’ said Hermione_Granger approvingly. ‘but i wish i could have had a turn with the boggart –’ ‘what would it have been for you?’ said Ronald_Weasley sniggering. ‘a piece of homework that only got nine out of ten?’ 