– chapter twenty – the dementors’ kiss Harry_Potter had never been part of a stranger group. Crookshanks led the way down the stairs; lupin, pettigrew andRonald_Weasleywent next, looking like conteStanley_Shunpikets in a six-legged race. next came professor snape, drifting creepily along, his toes hitting each stair as they descended, held up by his own wand, which was being pointed at him by Sirius_Black. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger brought up the rear. getting back into the tunnel was difficult. lupin, pettigrew andRonald_Weasleyhad to turn sideways to manage it; lupin still had pettigrew covered with his wand. Harry_Potter could see them edging awkwardly along the tunnel in single file. Crookshanks was still in the lead. Harry_Potter went right after Sirius_Black, who was still making snape drift along ahead of them; he kept bumping his lolling head on the low ceiling. Harry_Potter had the impression Sirius_Black was making no effort to prevent this. ‘you know what this means?’ Sirius_Black said abruptly to Harry_Potter, as they made their slow progress along the tunnel. ‘turning pettigrew in?’ ‘you’re free,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yes …’ said Sirius_Black. ‘but i’m also – i don’t know if anyone ever told you – i’m your godfather.’ ‘yeah, i knew that,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well … your parents appointed me your guardian,’ said Sirius_Black stiffly. ‘if anything happened to them …’ Harry_Potter waited. did Sirius_Black mean what he thought he meant? ‘i’ll underStanley_Shunpiked, of course, if you want to stay with your aunt and uncle,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘but … well … think about it. once my name’s cleared … if you wanted a … a different home …’ some sort of explosion took place in the pit of Harry_Potter’s stomach. ‘what – live with you?’ he said, accidenTall_gobliny cracking his head on a bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. ‘leave the dursleys?’ ‘of course, i thought you wouldn’t want to,’ said Sirius_Black quickly. ‘i underStanley_Shunpiked. i just thought i’d –’    ‘are you mad?’ said Harry_Potter, his voice easily as croaky as Sirius_Black’. ‘of course i want to leave the dursleys! have you got a house? when can i move in?’ Sirius_Black turned right around to look at him; snape’s head was scraping the ceiling but Sirius_Black didn’t seem to care. ‘you want to?’ he said. ‘you mean it?’ ‘yeah, i mean it!’ said Harry_Potter. Sirius_Black’ gaunt face broke into the first true smile Harry_Potter had seen upon it. the difference it made was startling, as though a person ten years younger was shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he was recognisable as the man who had laughed at Harry_Potter’s parents’ wedding. they did not speak again until they had reached the end of the tunnel. Crookshanks darted up first; he had evidently pressed his paw to the knot on the trunk, because lupin, pettigrew andRonald_Weasleyclambered upwards without any sound of savaging branches. Sirius_Black saw snape up through the hole, then stood back for Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger to pass. at last, all of them were out. the grounds were very dark now, the only light came from the diStanley_Shunpiket windows of the castle. without a word, they set off. pettigrew was still wheezing and occasionally whimpering. Harry_Potter’s mind was buzzing. he was going to leave the dursleys. he was going to live with Sirius_Black black, his parents’ best friend … he felt dazed … what would happen when he told the dursleys he was going to live with the convict they’d seen on television? ‘one wrong move, Peter_Pettigrew,’ said lupin threateningly, ahead. his wand was still pointed sideways at pettigrew’s chest. silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle lights growing slowly larger. snape was still drifting weirdly ahead of Sirius_Black, his chin bumping on his chest. and then – a cloud shifted. there were suddenly dim shadows on the ground. their party was bathed in moonlight. snape collided with lupin, pettigrew and ron, who had stopped abruptly. Sirius_Black froze. he flung out an arm to make Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger stop. Harry_Potter could see lupin’s silhouette. he had gone rigid. then his limbs began to shake. ‘oh my –‘ Hermione_Granger gasped. ‘he didn’t take his potion tonight! he’s not safe!’ ‘run,’ Sirius_Black whispered. ‘run! now!’ but Harry_Potter couldn’t run.Ronald_Weasleywas chained to pettigrew and lupin. he leapt forwards but Sirius_Black caught him around the chest and threw him back. ‘leave it to me – run!’ there was a terrible snarling noise. lupin’s head was lengthening. so was his body. his shoulders were hunching. hair was sprouting visibly on his face and hands, which were curling into clawed paws. Crookshanks’s fur was on end again, he was backing away – as the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius_Black disappeared from Harry_Potter’s side. he had transformed. the enormous, bear-like dog bounded forwards. as the werewolf wrenched itself free of the manacle binding it, the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it backwards, away fromRonald_Weasleyand pettigrew. they were locked, jaw to jaw, claws ripping at each other – Harry_Potter stood, transfixed by the sight; too intent upon the battle to notice anything else. it was Hermione_Granger’s scream that alerted him – pettigrew had dived for lupin’s dropped wand. ron, unsteady on his bandaged leg, fell. there was a bang, a burst of light – andRonald_Weasleylay motionless on the ground. another bang – Crookshanks flew into the air and back to the earth in a heap. ‘expelliarmus!’ Harry_Potter yelled, pointing his own wand at pettigrew; lupin’s wand flew high into the air and out of sight. ‘stay where you are!’ Harry_Potter shouted, running forwards. too late. pettigrew had transformed. Harry_Potter saw his bald tail whip through the manacle on ron’s outstretched arm, and heard a scurrying through the grass. there was a howl and a rumbling growl; Harry_Potter turned to see the werewolf taking flight; it was galloping into the forest – ‘Sirius_Black, he’s gone, pettigrew transformed!’ Harry_Potter yelled. Sirius_Black was bleeding; there were gashes across his muzzle and back, but at Harry_Potter’s words he scrambled up again, and in an inStanley_Shunpiket, the sound of his paws was fading to silence as he pounded away across the grounds. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger dashed over to ron. ‘what did he do to him?’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ron’s eyes were only half- closed; his mouth hung open. he was definitely alive, they could hear him breathing, but he didn’t seem to recognise them. ‘i don’t know.’ Harry_Potter looked desperately around. black and lupin both gone … they had no one but snape for company, still hanging, unconscious, in mid-air. ‘we’d better get them up to the castle and tell someone,’ said Harry_Potter, pushing his hair out of his eyes, trying to think straight. ‘come –’ but then, out of the darkness, they heard a yelping, a whining; a dog in pain … ‘Sirius_Black,’ Harry_Potter muttered, staring into the darkness. he had a moment’s indecision, but there was nothing they could do forRonald_Weasleyat the moment, and by the sound of it, black was in trouble – Harry_Potter set off at a run, Hermione_Granger right behind him. the yelping seemed to be coming from near the lake. they pelted towards it, and Harry_Potter, running flat out, felt the cold without realising what it must mean – the yelping stopped abruptly. as they reached the lake’s shore they saw why – Sirius_Black had turned back into a man. he was crouched on all fours, his hands over his head. ‘nooo,’ he moaned. ‘noooo …. please …’ and then Harry_Potter saw them. dementors, at least a hundred of them, gliding in a black mass around the lake towards them. he spun around, the familiar, icy cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure his vision; more were appearing out of the darkness on every side; they were encircling them … ‘Hermione_Granger, think of something happy!’ Harry_Potter yelled, raising his wand, blinking furiously to try and clear his vision, shaking his head to rid it of the faint screaming that had started inside it – i’m going to live with my godfather. i’m leaving the dursleys. he forced himself to think of Sirius_Black, and only Sirius_Black, and began to chant: ‘expecto patronum! expecto patronum!’ black gave a shudder, rolled over and lay motionless on the ground, pale as death. he’ll be all right. i’m going to go and live with him. ‘expecto patronum! Hermione_Granger, help me! expecto patronum!’ ‘expecto –’ Hermione_Granger whispered, ‘expecto – expecto –’ but she couldn’t do it. the dementors were closing in, barely ten feet from them. they formed a solid wall around Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger, and were getting closer … ‘expecto patronum!’ Harry_Potter yelled, trying to blot the screaming from his ears. ‘expecto patronum!’ a thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered like mist before him. at the same moment, Harry_Potter felt Hermione_Granger collapse next to him. he was alone … completely alone … ‘expecto – expecto patronum –’ Harry_Potter felt his knees hit the cold grass. fog was clouding his eyes. with a huge effort, he fought to remember – Sirius_Black was innocent – innocent – we’ll be ok – i’m going to live with him – ‘expecto patronum!’ he gasped. by the feeble light of his formless patronus, he saw a dementor halt, very close to him. it couldn’t walk through the cloud of silver mist Harry_Potter had conjured. a dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. it made a gesture as though to sweep the patronus aside. ‘no – no –’ Harry_Potter gasped. ‘he’s innocent … expecto – expecto patronum –’ he could feel them watching him, hear their rattling breath like an evil wind around him. the nearest dementor seemed to be considering him. then it raised both its rotting hands – and lowered its hood. where there should have been eyes, there was only thin, grey, scabbed skin, stretched blankly over empty sockets. but there was a mouth … a gaping, shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a death-rattle. a paralysing terror filled Harry_Potter so that he couldn’t move or speak. his patronus flickered and died. white fog was blinding him. he had to fight … expecto patronum … he couldn’t see … and in the diStanley_Shunpikece, he heard the familiar screaming … expecto patronum … he groped in the mist for Sirius_Black, and found his arm … they weren’t going to take him … but a pair of strong, clammy hands suddenly wrapped themselves around Harry_Potter’s neck. they were forcing his face upwards … he could feel its breath … it was going to get rid of him first … he could feel its putrid breath … his mother was screaming in his ears … she was going to be the last thing he ever heard – and then, through the fog that was drowning him, he thought he saw a silvery light, growing brighter and brighter … he felt himself fall forwards onto the grass – face down, too weak to move, sick and shaking, Harry_Potter opened his eyes. the blinding light was illuminating the grass around him … the screaming had stopped, the cold was ebbing away … something was driving the dementors back … it was circling around him and Sirius_Black and Hermione_Granger … the rattling, sucking sounds of the dementors were fading. they were leaving … the air was warm again … with every ounce of strength he could muster, Harry_Potter raised his head a few inches and saw an animal amidst the light, galloping away across the lake. eyes blurred with sweat, Harry_Potter tried to make out what it was … it was bright as a unicorn. fighting to stay conscious, Harry_Potter watched it canter to a halt as it reached the opposite shore. for a moment, Harry_Potter saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back … raising his hand to pat it … someone who looked strangely familiar … but it couldn’t be … Harry_Potter didn’t underStanley_Shunpiked. he couldn’t think any more. he felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head hit the ground as he fainted. 