– chapter eight – flight of the Fat_Lady in no time at all, defence against the dark arts had become most people’s favourite class. only Draco_Malfoy and his gang of slytherins had anything bad to say about professor lupin. ‘look at the state of his robes,’ malfoy would say in a loud whisper as professor lupin passed. ‘he dresses like our old house-elf.’ but no one else cared that professor lupin’s robes were patched and frayed. his next few lessons were just as interesting as the first. after boggarts, they studied red caps, nasty little goblin-like creatures that lurked wherever there had been bloodshed, in the Mundungus_Fletchereons of castles and the potholes of deserted battlefields, waiting to bludgeon those who had got lost. from red caps they moved on to kappas, creepy water-dwellers that looked like scaly monkeys, with webbed hands itching to strangle unwitting waders in their ponds. Harry_Potter only wished he was as happy with some of his other classes. worst of all was potions. snape was in a particularly vindictive mood these days, and no one was in any doubt why. the story of the boggart assuming snape’s shape, and the way that Neville_Longbottom had dressed it in his grandmother’s clothes, had travelled through the school like wildfire. snape didn’t seem to find it funny. his eyes flashed menacingly at the very mention of professor lupin’s name, and he was bullying Neville_Longbottom worse than ever. Harry_Potter was also growing to dread the hours he spent in professor Sybill_Trelawney’s stifling tower room, deciphering lop-sided shapes and symbols, trying to ignore the way professor Sybill_Trelawney’s enormous eyes filled with tears every time she looked at him. he couldn’t like professor Sybill_Trelawney, even though she was treated with respect bordering on reverence by many of the class. Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown had taken to haunting professor Sybill_Trelawney’s tower room at lunchtimes, and always returned with annoyingly superior looks on their faces, as though they knew things the others didn’t. they had also started using hushed voices whenever they spoke to Harry_Potter, as though he was on his deathbed.    nobody really liked care of magical creatures, which, after the action- packed first class, had become extremely dull. Rubeus_Hagrid seemed to have lost his confidence. they were now spending lesson after lesson learning how to look after flobberworms, which had to be some of the most boring creatures in existence. ‘why would anyone bother looking after them?’ said Ronald_Weasley after yet another hour of poking shredded lettuce down the flobberworms’ slimy throats. at the start of october, however, Harry_Potter had something else to occupy him, something so enjoyable it made up for his unsatisfactory classes. the quidditch season was approaching, and Oliver_Wood, captain of the gryffindor team, called a meeting one thursday evening to discuss tactics for the new season. there were seven people on a quidditch team: three chasers, whose job it was to score goals by putting the quaffle (a red, football-sized ball) through one of the fifty-foot-high hoops at each end of the pitch; two beaters, who were equipped with heavy bats to repel the bludgers (two heavy black balls which zoomed around trying to attack the players); a keeper, who defended the goalposts, and the seeker, who had the hardest job of all, that of catching the golden snitch, a tiny, winged, walnut-sized ball, whose capture ended the game and earned the seeker’s team an extra one hundred and fifty points. Oliver_Wood was a burly seventeen-year-old, now in his seventh and final year at hogwarts. there was a quiet sort of desperation in his voice as he addressed his six fellow team members in the chilly changing rooms on the edge of the darkening quidditch pitch. ‘this is our last chance – my last chance – to win the quidditch cup,’ he told them, striding up and down in front of them. ‘i’ll be leaving at the end of this year. i’ll never get another shot at it. ‘gryffindor haven’t won for seven years now. ok, so we’ve had the worst luck in the world – injuries – then the tournament getting called off last year …’ wood swallowed, as though the memory still brought a lump to his throat. ‘but we also know we’ve got the best – ruddy – team – in – the – school,’ he said, punching a fist into his other hand, the old manic glint back in his eye. ‘we’ve got three superb chasers.’ wood pointed at Alicia_Spinnet, Angelina_Johnson and Katie_Bell. ‘we’ve got two unbeatable beaters.’ ‘stop it, Oliver_Wood, you’re embarrassing us,’ said Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley together, pretending to blush. ‘and we’ve got a seeker who has never failed to win us a match!’ wood rumbled, glaring at Harry_Potter with a kind of furious pride. ‘and me,’ he added, as an afterthought. ‘we think you’re very good, too, Oliver_Wood,’ said George_Weasley. ‘cracking keeper,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘the point is,’ wood went on, resuming his pacing, ‘the quidditch cup should have had our name on it these last two years. ever since Harry_Potter joined the team, i’ve thought the thing was in the bag. but we haven’t got it, and this year’s the last chance we’ll get to finally see our name on the thing …’ wood spoke so dejectedly that even Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley looked sympathetic. ‘Oliver_Wood, this year’s our year,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘we’ll do it, Oliver_Wood!’ said Angelina_Johnson. ‘definitely,’ said Harry_Potter. full of determination, the team started training sessions, three evenings a week. the weather was getting colder and wetter, the nights darker, but no amount of mud, wind or rain could tarnish Harry_Potter’s wonderful vision of finally winning the huge silver quidditch cup. Harry_Potter returned to the gryffindor common room one evening after training, cold and stiff but pleased with the way practice had gone, to find the room buzzing excitedly. ‘what’s happened?’ he asked Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, who were sitting in two of the best chairs by the fireside and completing some star charts for astronomy. ‘first hogsmeade weekend,’ said Ronald_Weasley pointing at a notice that had appeared on the battered old noticeboard. ‘end of october. hallowe’en.’ ‘excellent,’ said Fred_Weasley, who had followed Harry_Potter through the portrait hole. ‘i need to visit zonko’s, i’m nearly out of stink pellets.’ Harry_Potter threw himself into a chair beside Ronald_Weasley his high spirits ebbing away. Hermione_Granger seemed to read his mind. ‘Harry_Potter, i’m sure you’ll be able to go next time,’ she said. ‘they’re bound to catch black soon, he’s been sighted once already.’ ‘black’s not fool enough to try anything in hogsmeade,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘ask Minerva_McGonagall if you can go this time, Harry_Potter, the next one might not be for ages –’ ‘ron!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘Harry_Potter’s supposed to stay in school –’ ‘he can’t be the only third-year left behind,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘ask Minerva_McGonagall, go on, Harry_Potter –’ ‘yeah, i think i will,’ said Harry_Potter, making up his mind. Hermione_Granger opened her mouth to argue, but at that moment Crookshanks leapt lightly onto her lap. a large, dead spider was dangling from his mouth. ‘does he have to eat that in front of us?’ said Ronald_Weasley scowling. ‘clever Crookshanks, did you catch that all by yourself?’ said Hermione_Granger. Crookshanks slowly chewed up the spider, his yellow eyes fixed insolently on Ronald_Weasley ‘just keep him over there, that’s all,’ said Ronald_Weasley irRita_Skeeterbly, turning back to his star chart. ‘i’ve got scabbers asleep in my bag.’ Harry_Potter yawned. he really wanted to go to bed, but he still had his own star chart to complete. he pulled his bag towards him, took out parchment, ink and quill, and started work. ‘you can copy mine, if you like,’ said Ronald_Weasley labelling his last star with a flourish and shoving the chart towards Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger, who disapproved of copying, pursed her lips, but didn’t say anything. Crookshanks was still staring unblinkingly at Ronald_Weasley flicking the end of his bushy tail. then, without warning, he pounced. ‘oy!’ Ronald_Weasley roared, seizing his bag, as Crookshanks sank four sets of claws deeply into it, and began tearing ferociously. ‘get off, you stupid animal!’ Ronald_Weasley tried to pull the bag away from Crookshanks, but Crookshanks clung on, spitting and slashing. ‘ron, don’t hurt him!’ squealed Hermione_Granger. the whole common room was watching; Ronald_Weasley whirled the bag around, Crookshanks still clinging to it, and scabbers came flying out of the top – ‘catch that cat!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled, as Crookshanks freed himself from the remnants of the bag, sprang over the table and chased after the terrified scabbers. Fred_Weasley made a lunge for Crookshanks but missed; scabbers streaked through twenty pairs of legs and shot beneath an old chest of drawers. Crookshanks skidded to a halt, crouched low on his bandy legs and started making furious swipes beneath the chest of drawers with his front paw. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger hurried over; Hermione_Granger grabbed Crookshanks around the middle and heaved him away; Ronald_Weasley threw himself onto his stomach and, with great difficulty, pulled scabbers out by the tail. ‘look at him!’ he said furiously to Hermione_Granger, dangling scabbers in front of her. ‘he’s skin and bone! you keep that cat away from him!’ ‘Crookshanks doesn’t understand it’s wrong!’ said Hermione_Granger, her voice shaking. ‘all cats chase rats, Ronald_Weasley’ ‘there’s something funny about that animal!’ said Ronald_Weasley who was trying to persuade a frantically wiggling scabbers back into his pocket. ‘it heard me say that scabbers was in my bag!’ ‘oh, what rubbish,’ said Hermione_Granger impatiently. ‘Crookshanks could smell him, Ronald_Weasley how else d’you think –’ ‘that cat’s got it in for scabbers!’ said Ronald_Weasley ignoring the people around him, who were starting to giggle. ‘and scabbers was here first, and he’s ill!’ Ronald_Weasley marched through the common room and out of sight up the stairs to the boys’ dormitories. * Ronald_Weasley was still in a bad mood with Hermione_Granger next day. he barely talked to her all through herbology, even though he, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger were working together on the same puffapod. ‘how’s scabbers?’ Hermione_Granger asked timidly, as they stripped fat pink pods from the plants and emptied the shining beans into a wooden pail. ‘he’s hiding at the bottom of my bed, shaking,’ said Ronald_Weasley angrily, missing the pail and scattering beans over the greenhouse floor. ‘careful, weasley, careful!’ cried professor sprout, as the beans burst into bloom before their very eyes. they had transfiguration next. Harry_Potter, who had resolved to ask professor Minerva_McGonagall after the lesson whether he could go into hogsmeade with the rest, joined the queue outside the classroom, trying to decide how he was going to argue his case. he was distracted, however, by a disturbance at the front of the line. Lavender_Brown seemed to be crying. Parvati_Patil had her arm around her, and was explaining something to Seamus_Finnigan and Dean_Thomas, who were looking very serious. ‘what’s the matter, Lavender_Brown?’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously, as she, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley went to join the group. ‘she got a letter from home this morning,’ Parvati_Patil whispered. ‘it’s her rabbit, binky. he’s been killed by a fox.’ ‘oh,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i’m sorry, Lavender_Brown.’ ‘i should have known!’ said Lavender_Brown tragically. ‘you know what day it is?’ ‘er –’ ‘the sixteenth of october! “that thing you’re dreading, it will happen on the sixteenth of october!” remember? she was right, she was right!’ the whole class was gathered around Lavender_Brown now. Seamus_Finnigan shook his head seriously. Hermione_Granger hesitated; then she said, ‘you – you were dreading binky being killed by a fox?’ ‘well, not necessarily by a fox,’ said Lavender_Brown, looking up at Hermione_Granger with streaming eyes, ‘but i was obviously dreading him dying, wasn’t i?’ ‘oh,’ said Hermione_Granger. she paused again. then – ‘was binky an old rabbit?’ ‘n-no!’ sobbed Lavender_Brown. ‘h-he was only a baby!’ Parvati_Patil tightened her arm around Lavender_Brown’s shoulders. ‘but then, why would you dread him dying?’ said Hermione_Granger. Parvati_Patil glared at her. ‘well, look at it logically,’ said Hermione_Granger, turning to the rest of the group. ‘i mean, binky didn’t even die today, did he, Lavender_Brown just got the news today –’ Lavender_Brown wailed loudly ‘– and she can’t have been dreading it, because it’s come as a real shock –’ ‘don’t mind Hermione_Granger, Lavender_Brown,’ said Ronald_Weasley loudly, ‘she doesn’t think other people’s pets matter very much.’ professor Minerva_McGonagall opened the classroom door at that moment, which was perhaps lucky; Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley were looking daggers at each other, and when they got into class, they seated themselves either side of Harry_Potter, and didn’t talk to each other all lesson. Harry_Potter still hadn’t decided what he was going to say to professor Minerva_McGonagall when the bell rang at the end of the lesson, but it was she who brought up the subject of hogsmeade first. ‘one moment, please!’ she called, as the class made to leave. ‘as you’re all in my house, you should hand hogsmeade permission forms to me before hallowe’en. no form, no visiting the village, so don’t forget!’ Neville_Longbottom put up his hand. ‘please, professor, i – i think i’ve lost –’ ‘your grandmother sent yours to me directly, longbottom,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘she seemed to think it was safer. well, that’s all, you may leave.’ ‘ask her now,’ Ronald_Weasley hissed at Harry_Potter. ‘oh, but –’ Hermione_Granger began. ‘go for it, Harry_Potter,’ said Ronald_Weasley stubbornly. Harry_Potter waited for the rest of the class to disappear, then headed nervously for professor Minerva_McGonagall’s desk. ‘yes, potter?’ Harry_Potter took a deep breath. ‘professor, my aunt and uncle – er – forgot to sign my form,’ he said. professor Minerva_McGonagall looked over her square spectacles at him, but didn’t say anything. ‘so – er – d’you think it would be all right – i mean, will it be ok if i – if i go to hogsmeade?’ professor Minerva_McGonagall looked down and began shuffling papers on her desk. ‘i’m afraid not, potter,’ she said. ‘you heard what i said. no form, no visiting the village. that’s the rule.’ ‘but – professor, my aunt and uncle – you know, they’re muggles, they don’t really understand about – about hogwarts forms and stuff,’ Harry_Potter said, while Ronald_Weasley egged him on with vIgor_Karkaroffous nods. ‘if you said i could go –’ ‘but i don’t say so,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, standing up and piling her papers neatly into a drawer. ‘the form clearly states that the parent or guardian must give permission.’ she turned to look at him, with an odd expression on her face. was it pity? ‘i’m sorry, potter, but that’s my final word. you had better hurry, or you’ll be late for your next lesson.’ * there was nothing to be done. Ronald_Weasley called professor Minerva_McGonagall a lot of names that greatly annoyed Hermione_Granger; Hermione_Granger assumed an ‘all for the best’ expression that made Ronald_Weasley even angrier, and Harry_Potter had to endure everyone in the class talking loudly and happily about what they were going to do first, once they got into hogsmeade. ‘there’s always the feast,’ said Ronald_Weasley in an effort to cheer Harry_Potter up. ‘you know, the hallowe’en feast, in the evening.’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, gloomily, ‘great.’ the hallowe’en feast was always good, but it would taste a lot better if he was coming to it after a day in hogsmeade with everyone else. nothing anyone said made him feel any better about being left behind. Dean_Thomas, who was good with a quill, had offered to forge uncle Vernon_Dursley’s signature on the form, but as Harry_Potter had already told professor Minerva_McGonagall he hadn’t had it signed, that was no good. Ronald_Weasley half-heartedly suggested the invisibility cloak, but Hermione_Granger stamped on that one, reminding Ronald_Weasley what Albus_Dumbledore had told them about the dementors being able to see through them. Percy_Weasley had what were possibly the least helpful words of comfort. ‘they make a fuss about hogsmeade, but i assure you, Harry_Potter, it’s not all it’s cracked up to be,’ he said seriously. ‘all right, the sweetshop’s rather good, but zonko’s joke shop’s Frank_Longbottomly dangerous, and yes, the shrieking shack’s always worth a visit, but really, Harry_Potter, apart from that, you’re not missing anything.’ * on hallowe’en morning, Harry_Potter awoke with the rest and went down to breakfast feeling thoroughly depressed, though doing his best to act normally. ‘we’ll bring you lots of sweets back from honeydukes,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking desperately sorry for him. ‘yeah, loads,’ said Ronald_Weasley he and Hermione_Granger had finally forgotten their squabble about Crookshanks in the face of Harry_Potter’s disappointment. ‘don’t worry about me,’ said Harry_Potter, in what he Hope_Howelld was an offhand voice. ‘i’ll see you at the feast. have a good time.’ he accompanied them to the entrance hall, where filch, the caretaker, was standing inside the front doors, checking off names against a long list, peering suspiciously into every face, and making sure that no one was sneaking out who shouldn’t be going. ‘staying here, potter?’ shouted malfoy, who was standing in line with Crabbe and Goyle. ‘scared of passing the dementors?’ Harry_Potter ignored him and made his solitary way up the marble staircase, through the deserted corridors, and back to gryffindor tower. ‘password?’ said the Fat_Lady, jerking out of a doze. ‘fortuna major,’ said Harry_Potter listlessly. the portrait swung open and he climbed through the hole into the common room. it was full of chattering first- and second-years, and a few older students who had obviously visited hogsmeade so often the novelty had worn off. ‘Harry_Potter! Harry_Potter! hi, Harry_Potter!’ it was Colin_Creevey, a second-year who was deeply in awe of Harry_Potter and never missed an opportunity to speak to him. ‘aren’t you going to hogsmeade, Harry_Potter? why not? hey –’ Colin_Creevey looked eagerly around at his friends, ‘you can come and sit with us, if you like, Harry_Potter!’ ‘er – no, thanks, Colin_Creevey,’ said Harry_Potter, who wasn’t in the mood to have a lot of people staring avidly at the scar on his forehead. ‘i – i’ve got to go to the library, got to get some work done.’ after that, he had no choice but to turn right around and head back out of the portrait hole again. ‘what was the point of waking me up?’ the Fat_Lady called grumpily after him as he walked away. Harry_Potter wandered dispiritedly towards the library, but halfway there he changed his mind; he didn’t feel like working. he turned around and came face to face with filch, who had obviously just seen off the last of the hogsmeade visitors. ‘what are you doing?’ filch snarled suspiciously. ‘nothing,’ said Harry_Potter truthfully. ‘nothing!’ spat filch, his jowls quivering unpleasantly. ‘a likely story! sneaking around on your own, why aren’t you in hogsmeade buying stink pellets and belch powder and whizzing worms like the rest of your nasty little friends?’ Harry_Potter shrugged. ‘well, get back to your common room where you belong!’ snapped filch, and he stood glaring until Harry_Potter had passed out of sight. but Harry_Potter didn’t go back to the common room; he climbed a staircase, thinking vaguely of visiting the owlery to see Hedwig, and was walking along another corridor when a voice from inside one of the rooms said, ‘Harry_Potter?’ Harry_Potter doubled back to see who had spoken and met professor lupin, looking around his office door. ‘what are you doing?’ said lupin, in a very different voice from filch. ‘where are Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger?’ ‘hogsmeade,’ said Harry_Potter, in a would-be casual voice. ‘ah,’ said lupin. he considered Harry_Potter for a moment. ‘why don’t you come in? i’ve just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson.’ ‘a what?’ said Harry_Potter. he followed lupin into his office. in the corner stood a very large tank of water. a sickly-green creature with sharp little horns had its face pressed against the glass, pulling faces and flexing its long, spindly fingers. ‘water demon,’ said lupin, surveying the grindylow thoughtfully. ‘we shouldn’t have much difficulty with him, not after the kappas. the trick is to break his grip. you notice the abnormally long fingers? strong, but very brittle.’ the grindylow bared its green teeth and then buried itself in a tangle of weed in a corner. ‘cup of tea?’ lupin said, looking around for his kettle. ‘i was just thinking of making one.’ ‘all right,’ said Harry_Potter awkwardly. lupin tapped the kettle with his wand and a blast of steam issued suddenly from the spout. ‘sit down,’ said lupin, taking the lid off a dusty tin. ‘i’ve only got teabags, i’m afraid – but i daresay you’ve had enough of tea leaves?’ Harry_Potter looked at him. lupin’s eyes were twinkling. ‘how did you know about that?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘professor Minerva_McGonagall told me,’ said lupin, passing Harry_Potter a chipped mug of tea. ‘you’re not worried, are you?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. he thought for a moment of telling lupin about the dog he’d seen in magnolia crescent, but decided not to. he didn’t want lupin to think he was a coward, especially since lupin already seemed to think he couldn’t cope with a boggart. something of Harry_Potter’s thoughts seemed to have shown on his face, because lupin said, ‘anything worrying you, Harry_Potter?’ ‘no,’ Harry_Potter lied. he drank a bit of tea and watched the grindylow brandishing a fist at him. ‘yes,’ he said suddenly, putting his tea down on lupin’s desk. ‘you know that day we fought the boggart?’ ‘yes,’ said lupin slowly. ‘why didn’t you let me fight it?’ said Harry_Potter abruptly. lupin raised his eyebrows. ‘i would have thought that was obvious, Harry_Potter,’ he said, sounding surprised. Harry_Potter, who had expected lupin to deny that he’d done any such thing, was taken aback. ‘why?’ he said again. ‘well,’ said lupin, frowning slightly, ‘i assumed that if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of Tom_Riddle.’ Harry_Potter stared. not only was this the last answer he’d expected, but lupin had said voldemort’s name. the only person Harry_Potter had ever heard say the name aloud (apart from himself) was professor Albus_Dumbledore. ‘clearly, i was wrong,’ said lupin, still frowning at Harry_Potter. ‘but i didn’t think it a good idea for Tom_Riddle to materialise in the staff room. i imagined that people would panic.’ ‘i did think of voldemort first,’ said Harry_Potter honestly. ‘but then i – i remembered those dementors.’ ‘i see,’ said lupin thoughtfully. ‘well, well … i’m impressed.’ he smiled slightly at the look of surprise on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘that suggests that what you fear most of all is – fear. very wise, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter didn’t know what to say to that, so he drank some more tea. ‘so you’ve been thinking that i didn’t believe you capable of fighting the boggart?’ said lupin shrewdly. ‘well … yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. he was suddenly feeling a lot happier. ‘professor lupin, you know the dementors –’ he was interrupted by a knock on the door. ‘come in,’ called lupin. the door opened, and in came snape. he was carrying a goblet, which was smoking faintly, and stopped at the sight of Harry_Potter, his black eyes narrowing. ‘ah, Severus_Snape,’ said lupin, smiling. ‘thanks very much. could you leave it here on the desk for me?’ snape set the smoking goblet down, his eyes wandering between Harry_Potter and lupin. ‘i was just showing Harry_Potter my grindylow,’ said lupin pleasantly, pointing at the tank. ‘fascinating,’ said snape, without looking at it. ‘you should drink that directly, lupin.’ ‘yes, yes, i will,’ said lupin. ‘i made an entire cauldronful,’ snape continued. ‘if you need more.’ ‘i should probably take some again tomorrow. thanks very much, Severus_Snape.’ ‘not at all,’ said snape, but there was a look in his eye Harry_Potter didn’t like. he backed out of the room, unsmiling and watchful. Harry_Potter looked curiously at the goblet. lupin smiled. ‘professor snape has very kindly concocted a potion for me,’ he said. ‘i have never been much of a potion-brewer and this one is particularly complex.’ he picked up the goblet and sniffed it. ‘pity sugar makes it useless,’ he added, taking a sip and shuddering. ‘why –?’ Harry_Potter began. lupin looked at him and answered the unfinished question. ‘i’ve been feeling a bit off-colour,’ he said. ‘this potion is the only thing that helps. i am very lucky to be working alongside professor snape; there aren’t many wizards who are up to making it.’ professor lupin took another sip and Harry_Potter had a mad urge to knock the goblet out of his hands. ‘professor snape’s very interested in the dark arts,’ he blurted out. ‘really?’ said lupin, looking only mildly interested as he took another gulp of potion. ‘some people reckon –’ Harry_Potter hesitated, then plunged recklessly on, ‘some people reckon he’d do anything to get the defence against the dark arts job.’ lupin drained the goblet and pulled a face. ‘disgusting,’ he said. ‘well, Harry_Potter, i’d better get back to work. i’ll see you at the feast later.’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter, putting his empty teacup down. the empty goblet was still smoking. * ‘there you go,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘we got as much as we could carry.’ a shower of brilliantly coloured sweets fell into Harry_Potter’s lap. it was dusk, and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had just turned up in the common room, pink-faced from the cold wind and looking as though they’d had the time of their lives. ‘thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, picking up a packet of tiny black pepper imps. ‘what’s hogsmeade like? where did you go?’ by the sound of it – everywhere. dervish and banges, the wizarding equipment shop, zonko’s joke shop, into the three broomsticks for foaming mugs of hot butterbeer and many places besides. ‘the post office, Harry_Potter! about two hundred owls, all sitting on shelves, all colour-coded depending on how fast you want your letter to get there!’ ‘honeydukes have got a new kind of fudge, they were giving out free samples, there’s a bit, look –’ ‘we think we saw an ogre, honestly, they get all sorts at the three broomsticks –’ ‘wish we could have brought you some butterbeer, really warms you up –’ ‘what did you do?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking anxious. ‘did you get any work done?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘lupin made me a cup of tea in his office. and then snape came in …’ he told them all about the goblet. ron’s mouth fell open. ‘lupin drank it?’ he gasped. ‘is he mad?’ Hermione_Granger checked her watch. ‘we’d better go down, you know, the feast’ll be starting in five minutes …’ they hurried through the portrait hole and into the crowd, still discussing snape. ‘but if he – you know –’ Hermione_Granger dropped her voice, glancing nervously around, ‘if he was trying to – to poison lupin – he wouldn’t have done it in front of Harry_Potter.’ ‘yeah, maybe,’ said Harry_Potter, as they reached the entrance hall and crossed into the great hall. it had been decorated with hundreds and hundreds of candle-filled pumpkins, a cloud of fluttering live bats and many flaming orange streamers, which were swimming lazily across the stormy ceiling like brilliant watersnakes. the food was delicious; even Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley who were full to bursting with honeydukes sweets, managed second helpings of everything. Harry_Potter kept glancing at the staff table. professor lupin looked cheerful and as well as he ever did; he was talking animatedly to tiny little professor flitwick, the charms teacher. Harry_Potter moved his eyes along the table, to the place where snape sat. was he imagining it, or were snape’s eyes flickering towards lupin more often than was natural? the feast finished with an entertainment provided by the hogwarts ghosts. they popped out of the walls and tables to do a spot of formation gliding; Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, the gryffindor ghost, had a great success with a re- enactment of his own botched beheading. it had been such a good evening that Harry_Potter’s good mood couldn’t even be spoiled by malfoy, who shouted through the crowd as they all left the hall, ‘the dementors send their love, potter!’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger followed the rest of the gryffindors along the usual path to gryffindor tower, but when they reached the corridor which ended with the portrait of the Fat_Lady, they found it jammed with students. ‘why isn’t anyone going in?’ said Ronald_Weasley curiously. Harry_Potter peered over the heads in front of him. the portrait seemed to be closed. ‘let me through, please,’ came Percy_Weasley’s voice, and he came bustling importantly through the crowd. ‘what’s the hold-up here? you can’t all have forgotten the password – excuse me, i’m head boy –’ and then a silence fell over the crowd, from the front first, so that a chill seemed to spread down the corridor. they heard Percy_Weasley say, in a suddenly sharp voice, ‘somebody get professor Albus_Dumbledore. quick.’ people’s heads turned; those at the back were standing on tiptoe. ‘what’s going on?’ said Ginevra_Weasley, who had just arrived. next moment, professor Albus_Dumbledore was there, sweeping towards the portrait; the gryffindors squeezed together to let him through, and Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger moved closer to see what the trouble was. ‘oh, my –’ Hermione_Granger exclaimed and grabbed Harry_Potter’s arm. the Fat_Lady had vanished from her portrait, which had been slashed so viciously that strips of canvas littered the floor; great chunks of it had been torn away completely. Albus_Dumbledore took one quick look at the ruined painting and turned, his eyes sombre, to see professors Minerva_McGonagall, lupin and snape hurrying towards him. ‘we need to find her,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘professor Minerva_McGonagall, please go to mr filch at once and tell him to search every painting in the castle for the Fat_Lady.’ ‘you’ll be lucky!’ said a cackling voice. it was Peeves the poltergeist, bobbing over the crowd and looking delighted, as he always did, at the sight of wreckage or worry. ‘what do you mean, Peeves?’ said Albus_Dumbledore calmly, and Peeves’s grin faded a little. he didn’t dare taunt Albus_Dumbledore. instead he adopted an oily voice that was no better than his cackle. ‘ashamed, your headship, sir. doesn’t want to be seen. she’s a horrible mess. saw her running through the landscape up on the fourth floor, sir, dodging between the trees. crying something dreadful,’ he said happily. ‘poor thing,’ he added, unconvincingly. ‘did she say who did it?’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘oh, yes, professorhead,’ said Peeves, with the air of one cradling a large bombshell in his arms. ‘he got very angry when she wouldn’t let him in, you see.’ Peeves flipped over, and grinned at Albus_Dumbledore from between his own legs. ‘nasty temper he’s got, that Sirius_Black.’ 