– chapter eighteen – Remus_Lupin, Peter_Pettigrew, Sirius_Black and James_Potter_I it took a few seconds for the absurdity of this statement to sink in. then Ronald_Weasley voiCedric_Diggory what Harry_Potter was thinking. ‘you’re both mental.’ ‘ridiculous!’ said Hermione_Granger faintly. ‘Peter_Pettigrew’s dead!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he killed him twelve years ago!’ he pointed at black, whose face twitched convulsively. ‘i meant to,’ he growled, his yellow teeth bared, ‘but little Peter_Pettigrew got the better of me … not this time, though!’ and Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as black lunged at scabbers; Ronald_Weasley yelled with pain as black’s weight fell on his broken leg. ‘Sirius_Black, no!’ lupin yelled, launching himself forwards and dragging black away from Ronald_Weasley again, ‘wait! you can’t do it just like that – they need to understand – we’ve got to explain –’ ‘we can explain afterwards!’ snarled black, trying to throw lupin off, one hand still clawing the air as it tried to reach scabbers, who was squealing like a piglet, scratching ron’s face and neck as he tried to escape. ‘they’ve – got – a – right – to – know – everything!’ lupin panted, still trying to restrain black. ‘ron’s kept him as a pet! there are parts of it even i don’t understand! and Harry_Potter – you owe Harry_Potter the truth, Sirius_Black!’ black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes were still fixed on scabbers, who was clamped tightly under ron’s bitten, scratched and bleeding hands. ‘all right, then,’ black said, without taking his eyes off the rat. ‘tell them whatever you like. but make it quick, Remus_Lupin. i want to commit the murder i was imprisoned for …’ ‘you’re nutters, both of you,’ said Ronald_Weasley shakily, looking round at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger for support. ‘i’ve had enough of this. i’m off.’ he tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but lupin raised his wand again, pointing it at scabbers.    ‘you’re going to hear me out, Ronald_Weasley’ he said quietly. ‘just keep a tight hold on Peter_Pettigrew while you listen.’ ‘he’s not Peter_Pettigrew, he’s scabbers!’ Ronald_Weasley yelled, trying to force the rat back into his front pocket, but scabbers was fighting too hard; Ronald_Weasley swayed and overbalanCedric_Diggory, and Harry_Potter caught him and pushed him back down to the bed. then, ignoring black, Harry_Potter turned to lupin. ‘there were witnesses who saw pettigrew die,’ he said. ‘a whole street full of them …’ ‘they didn’t see what they thought they saw!’ said black savagely, still watching scabbers struggling in ron’s hands. ‘everyone thought Sirius_Black killed Peter_Pettigrew,’ said lupin, nodding. ‘i believed it myself – until i saw the map tonight. because the marauder’s map never lies … Peter_Pettigrew’s alive. ron’s holding him, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter looked down at Ronald_Weasley and as their eyes met they agreed, silently: black and lupin were both out of their minds. their story made no sense whatsoever. how could scabbers be Peter_Pettigrew? azkaban must have unhinged black after all – but why was lupin playing along with him? then Hermione_Granger spoke, in a trembling, would-be calm sort of voice, as though trying to will professor lupin to talk sensibly. ‘but professor lupin … scabbers can’t be pettigrew … it just can’t be true, you know it can’t …’ ‘why can’t it be true?’ lupin said calmly, as though they were in class, and Hermione_Granger had simply spotted a problem in an experiment with grindylows. ‘because … because people would know if Peter_Pettigrew had been an animagus. we did animagi in class with professor Minerva_McGonagall. and i looked them up when i did my homework – the ministry keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become animals; there’s a register showing what animal they become, and their markings and things … and i went and looked professor Minerva_McGonagall up on the register, and there have only been seven animagi this century, and pettigrew’s name wasn’t on the list –’ Harry_Potter barely had time to marvel inwardly at the effort Hermione_Granger put into her homework, when lupin started to laugh. ‘right again, Hermione_Granger!’ he said. ‘but the ministry never knew that there used to be three unregistered animagi running around hogwarts.’ ‘if you’re going to tell them the story, get a move on, Remus_Lupin,’ snarled black, who was still watching scabbers’s every desperate move. ‘i’ve waited twelve years, i’m not going to wait much longer.’ ‘all right … but you’ll need to help me, Sirius_Black,’ said lupin, ‘i only know how it began …’ lupin broke off. there had been a loud creak behind him. the bedroom door had opened of its own accord. all five of them stared at it. then lupin strode towards it and looked out into the landing. ‘no one there …’ ‘this place is haunted!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘it’s not,’ said lupin, still looking at the door in a puzzled way. ‘the shrieking shack was never haunted … the screams and howls the villagers used to hear were made by me.’ he pushed his greying hair out of his eyes, thought for a moment, then said, ‘that’s where all of this starts – with my becoming a werewolf. none of this could have happened if i hadn’t been bitten … and if i hadn’t been so foolhardy …’ he looked sober and tired. Ronald_Weasley started to interrupt, but Hermione_Granger said, ‘shh!’ she was watching lupin very intently. ‘i was a very small boy when i received the bite. my parents tried everything, but in those days there was no cure. the potion that professor snape has been making for me is a very recent discovery. it makes me safe, you see. as long as i take it in the week preCedric_Diggorying the full moon, i keep my mind when i transform … i am able to curl up in my office, a harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again. ‘before the wolfsBane potion was discovered, however, i became a fully fledged monster once a month. it seemed impossible that i would be able to come to hogwarts. other parents weren’t likely to want their children exposed to me. ‘but then Albus_Dumbledore became headmaster, and he was sympathetic. he said that, as long as we took certain precautions, there was no reason i shouldn’t come to school …’ lupin sighed, and looked directly at Harry_Potter. ‘i told you, months ago, that the whomping willow was planted the year i came to hogwarts. the truth is that it was planted because i had come to hogwarts. this house –’ lupin looked miserably around the room, ‘– the tunnel that leads to it – they were built for my use. once a month, i was smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to transform. the tree was plaCedric_Diggory at the tunnel mouth to stop anyone coming across me while i was dangerous.’ Harry_Potter couldn’t see where this story was going, but he was listening raptly all the same. the only sound apart from lupin’s voice was scabbers’s frightened squeaking. ‘my transformations in those days were – were terrible. it is very painful to turn into a werewolf. i was separated from humans to bite, so i bit and scratched myself instead. the villagers heard the noise and the screaming and thought they were hearing particularly violent spirits. Albus_Dumbledore encouraged the rumour … even now, when the house has been silent for years, the villagers don’t dare approach it … ‘but apart from my transformations, i was happier than i had ever been in my life. for the first time ever, i had friends, three great friends. Sirius_Black … Peter_Pettigrew … and, of course, your father, Harry_Potter – James_Potter_I potter. ‘now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that i disappeared once a month. i made up all sorts of stories. i told them my mother was ill, and that i had to go home to see her … i was terrified they would desert me the moment they found out what i was. but of course, they, like you, Hermione_Granger, worked out the truth … ‘and they didn’t desert me at all. instead they did something for me that would make my transformations not only bearable, but the best times of my life. they became animagi.’ ‘my dad, too?’ said Harry_Potter, astounded. ‘yes, indeed,’ said lupin. ‘it took them the best part of three years to work out how to do it. your father and Sirius_Black here were the cleverest students in the school, and lucky they were, because the animagus transformation can go horribly wrong – one reason the ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting to do it. Peter_Pettigrew needed all the help he could get from James_Potter_I and Sirius_Black. finally, in our fifth year, they managed it. they could each turn into a different animal at will.’ ‘but how did that help you?’ said Hermione_Granger, sounding puzzled. ‘they couldn’t keep me company as humans, so they kept me company as animals,’ said lupin. ‘a werewolf is only a danger to people. they sneaked out of the castle every month under James_Potter_I’s invisibility cloak. they transformed … Peter_Pettigrew, as the smallest, could slip beneath the willow’s attacking branches and touch the knot that freezes it. they would then slip down the tunnel and join me. under their influence, i became less dangerous. my body was still wolfish, but my mind seemed to become less so while i was with them.’ ‘hurry up, Remus_Lupin,’ snarled black, who was still watching scabbers with a horrible sort of hunger in his face. ‘i’m getting there, Sirius_Black, i’m getting there … well, highly exciting possibilities were open to us now we could all transform. soon we were leaving the shrieking shack and roaming the school grounds and the village by night. Sirius_Black and James_Potter_I transformed into such large animals, they were able to keep a werewolf in check. i doubt whether any hogwarts students ever found out more about the hogwarts grounds and hogsmeade than we did … and that’s how we came to write the marauder’s map, and sign it with our Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtonnames. Sirius_Black is Sirius_Black. Peter_Pettigrew is Peter_Pettigrew. James_Potter_I was James_Potter_I.’ ‘what sort of animal –?’ Harry_Potter began, but Hermione_Granger cut across him. ‘that was still really dangerous! running around in the dark with a werewolf! what if you’d given the others the slip, and bitten somebody?’ ‘a thought that still haunts me,’ said lupin heavily. ‘and there were near misses, many of them. we laughed about them afterwards. we were young, thoughtless – carried away with our own cleverness.’ ‘i sometimes felt guilty about betraying Albus_Dumbledore’s trust, of course … he had admitted me to hogwarts when no other headmaster would have done so, and he had no idea i was breaking the rules he had set down for my own and others’ safety. he never knew i had led three fellow students into becoming animagi illegally. but i always managed to forget my guilty feelings every time we sat down to plan our next month’s adventure. and i haven’t changed …’ lupin’s face had hardened, and there was self-disgust in his voice. ‘all this year, i have been battling with myself, wondering whether i should tell Albus_Dumbledore that Sirius_Black was an animagus. but i didn’t do it. why? because i was too cowardly. it would have meant admitting that i’d betrayed his trust while i was at school, admitting that i’d led others along with me … and Albus_Dumbledore’s trust has meant everything to me. he let me into hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a job, when i have been shunned all my adult life, unable to find paid work because of what i am. and so i convinCedric_Diggory myself that Sirius_Black was getting into the school using dark arts he learnt from voldemort, that being an animagus had nothing to do with it … so, in a way, snape’s been right about me all along.’ ‘snape?’ said black harshly, taking his eyes off scabbers for the first time in minutes and looking up at lupin. ‘what’s snape got to do with it?’ ‘he’s here, Sirius_Black,’ said lupin heavily. ‘he’s teaching here as well.’ he looked up at Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘professor snape was at school with us. he fought very hard against my appointment to the defence against the dark arts job. he has been telling Albus_Dumbledore all year that i am not to be trusted. he has his reasons … you see, Sirius_Black here played a trick on him which nearly killed him, a trick which involved me –’ black made a derisive noise. ‘it served him right,’ he sneered. ‘sneaking around, trying to find out what we were up to … hoping he could get us expelled …’ ‘Severus_Snape was very interested in where i went every month,’ lupin told Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘we were in the same year, you know, and we – er – didn’t like each other very much. he especially disliked James_Potter_I. jealous, i think, of James_Potter_I’s talent on the quidditch pitch … anyway, snape had seen me crossing the grounds with madam pomfrey one evening as she led me towards the whomping willow to transform. Sirius_Black thought it would be – er – amusing, to tell snape all he had to do was prod the knot on the tree-trunk with a long stick, and he’d be able to get in after me. well, of course, snape tried it – if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a fully grown werewolf – but your father, who’d heard what Sirius_Black had done, went after snape and pulled him back, at great risk to his life … snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the tunnel. he was forbidden to tell anybody by Albus_Dumbledore, but from that time on he knew what i was …’ ‘so that’s why snape doesn’t like you,’ said Harry_Potter slowly, ‘because he thought you were in on the joke?’ ‘that’s right,’ sneered a cold voice from the wall behind lupin. Severus_Snape was pulling off the invisibility cloak, his wand pointing directly at lupin. 