– chapter five – the dementor Tom_Riddle woke Harry_Potter next morning with his usual toothless grin and a cup of tea. Harry_Potter got dressed and was just persuading a disgruntled Hedwig to get back into her cage when Ronald_Weasley banged his way into the room, pulling a sweatshirt over his head and looking irRita_Skeeterble. ‘the sooner we get on the train, the better,’ he said. ‘at least i can get away from Percy_Weasley at hogwarts. now he’s accusing me of dripping tea on his photo of Penelope_Clearwater. you know,’ Ronald_Weasley grimaCedric_Diggory, ‘his girlfriend. she’s hidden her face under the frame because her nose has gone all blotchy …’ ‘i’ve got something to tell you,’ Harry_Potter began, but they were interrupted by Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who had looked in to congratulate Ronald_Weasley on infuriating Percy_Weasley again. they headed down to breakfast, where Arthur_Weasley was reading the front page of the daily prophet with a furrowed brow and Molly_Weasley was telling Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley about a love potion she’d made as a young girl. all three of them were rather giggly. ‘what were you saying?’ Ronald_Weasley asked Harry_Potter, as they sat down. ‘later,’ Harry_Potter muttered, as Percy_Weasley stormed in. Harry_Potter had no chance to speak to Ronald_Weasley or Hermione_Granger in the chaos of leaving; they were too busy heaving all their trunks down the leaky cauldron’s narrow staircase and piling them up near the door, with Hedwig and Hermes, Percy_Weasley’s screech owl, perched on top in their cages. a small wickerwork basket stood beside the heap of trunks, spitting loudly. ‘it’s all right, Crookshanks,’ Hermione_Granger cooed through the wickerwork, ‘i’ll let you out on the train.’ ‘you won’t,’ snapped Ronald_Weasley ‘what about poor scabbers, eh?’ he pointed at his chest, where a large lump indicated that scabbers was curled up in his pocket. Arthur_Weasley, who had been outside waiting for the ministry cars, stuck his head inside.    ‘they’re here,’ he said. ‘Harry_Potter, come on.’ Arthur_Weasley marched Harry_Potter across the short stretch of pavement towards the first of two old-fashioned dark green cars, each of which was driven by a furtive-looking wizard, wearing a suit of emerald velvet. ‘in you get, Harry_Potter,’ said Arthur_Weasley, glancing up and down the crowded street. Harry_Potter got into the back of the car, and was shortly joined by Hermione_Granger, Ronald_Weasley and, to ron’s disgust, Percy_Weasley. the journey to king’s cross was very uneventful compared to Harry_Potter’s trip on the Knight_with_an_arrow_sticking_out_of_his_forehead bus. the ministry of magic cars seemed almost ordinary, though Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory that they could slide through gaps that uncle Vernon_Dursley’s new company car certainly couldn’t have managed. they reached king’s cross with twenty minutes to spare; the ministry dLee_Jordans found them trolleys, unloaded their trunks, touched their hats to Arthur_Weasley and drove away, somehow managing to jump to the head of an unmoving queue for the traffic lights. Arthur_Weasley kept close to Harry_Potter’s elbow all the way into the station. ‘right then,’ he said, glancing around them. ‘let’s do this in pairs, as there are so many of us. i’ll go through first with Harry_Potter.’ Arthur_Weasley strolled towards the barrier between platforms nine and ten, pushing Harry_Potter’s trolley and apparently very interested in the intercity 125 that had just arrived at platform nine. with a meaningful look at Harry_Potter, he leant casually against the barrier. Harry_Potter imitated him. next moment, they had fallen sideways through the solid metal onto platform nine and three-quarters and looked up to see the hogwarts express, a scarlet steam engine, puffing smoke over a platform packed with witches and wizards seeing their children onto the train. Percy_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley suddenly appeared behind Harry_Potter. they were panting, and had apparently taken the barrier at a run. ‘ah, there’s Penelope_Clearwater!’ said Percy_Weasley, smoothing his hair and going pink again. Ginevra_Weasley caught Harry_Potter’s eye and they both turned away to hide their laughter as Percy_Weasley strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walking with his chest thrown out so that she couldn’t miss his shiny badge. once the remaining weasleys and Hermione_Granger had joined them, Harry_Potter and Arthur_Weasley led the way to the end of the train, past packed compartments, to a carriage that looked quite empty. they loaded the trunks onto it, stowed Hedwig and Crookshanks in the luggage rack, then went back outside to say goodbye to mr and Molly_Weasley. Molly_Weasley kissed all her children, then Hermione_Granger, and finally, Harry_Potter. he was embarrassed, but really quite pleased, when she gave him an extra hug. ‘do take care, won’t you, Harry_Potter?’ she said as she straightened up, her eyes oddly bright. then she opened her enormous handbag and said, ‘i’ve made you all sandwiches. here you are, Ronald_Weasley … no, they’re not corned beef … Fred_Weasley? where’s Fred_Weasley? here you are, dear …’ ‘Harry_Potter,’ said Arthur_Weasley quietly, ‘come over here a moment.’ he jerked his head towards a pillar, and Harry_Potter followed him behind it, leaving the others crowded around Molly_Weasley. ‘there’s something i’ve got to tell you before you leave –’ said Arthur_Weasley, in a tense voice. ‘it’s all right, Arthur_Weasley,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i already know.’ ‘you know? how could you know?’ ‘i – er – i heard you and Molly_Weasley talking last night. i couldn’t help hearing,’ Harry_Potter added quickly. ‘sorry –’ ‘that’s not the way i’d have chosen for you to find out,’ said Arthur_Weasley, looking anxious. ‘no – honestly, it’s ok. this way, you haven’t broken your word to fudge and i know what’s going on.’ ‘Harry_Potter, you must be very scared –’ ‘i’m not,’ said Harry_Potter sincerely. ‘really,’ he added, because Arthur_Weasley was looking disbelieving. ‘i’m not trying to be a hero, but seriously, Sirius_Black can’t be worse than voldemort, can he?’ Arthur_Weasley flinched at the sound of the name, but overlooked it. ‘Harry_Potter, i knew you were, well, made of stronger stuff than fudge seems to think, and i’m obviously pleased that you’re not scared, but –’ ‘Arthur_Weasley!’ called Molly_Weasley, who was now shepherding the rest onto the train. ‘Arthur_Weasley, what are you doing? it’s about to go!’ ‘he’s coming, Molly_Weasley!’ said Arthur_Weasley, but he turned back to Harry_Potter and kept talking in a lower and more hurried voice. ‘listen, i want you to give me your word –’ ‘– that i’ll be a good boy and stay in the castle?’ said Harry_Potter gloomily. ‘not entirely,’ said Arthur_Weasley, who looked more serious than Harry_Potter had ever seen him. ‘Harry_Potter, swear to me you won’t go looking for black.’ Harry_Potter stared. ‘what?’ there was a loud whistle. guards were walking along the train, slamming all the doors shut. ‘promise me, Harry_Potter,’ said Arthur_Weasley, talking more quickly still, ‘that whatever happens –’ ‘why would i go looking for someone i know wants to kill me?’ said Harry_Potter blankly. ‘swear to me that whatever you might hear –’ ‘Arthur_Weasley, quickly!’ cried Molly_Weasley. steam was billowing from the train; it had started to move. Harry_Potter ran to the compartment door and Ronald_Weasley threw it open and stood back to let him on. they leant out of the window and waved at mr and Molly_Weasley until the train turned a corner and blocked them from view. ‘i need to talk to you in private,’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger as the train picked up speed. ‘go away, Ginevra_Weasley,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘oh, that’s nice,’ said Ginevra_Weasley huffily, and she stalked off. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger set off down the corridor, looking for an empty compartment, but all were full except for the one at the very end of the train. this only had one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep next to the window. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger checked on the threshold. the hogwarts express was usually reserved for students and they had never seen an adult there before, except for the witch who pushed the food trolley. the stranger was wearing an extremely shabby set of wizard’s robes which had been darned in several places. he looked ill and exhausted. though he seemed quite young, his light-brown hair was flecked with grey. ‘who d’you reckon he is?’ Ronald_Weasley hissed, as they sat down and slid the door shut, taking the seats furthest away from the window. ‘professor r. j. lupin,’ whispered Hermione_Granger at once. ‘how d’you know that?’ ‘it’s on his case,’ replied Hermione_Granger, pointing at the luggage rack over the man’s head, where there was a small, battered case held together with a large quantity of neatly knotted string. the name ‘professor r. j. lupin’ was stamped across one corner in peeling letters. ‘wonder what he teaches?’ said Ronald_Weasley frowning at professor lupin’s pallid profile. ‘that’s obvious,’ whispered Hermione_Granger. ‘there’s only one vacancy, isn’t there? defence against the dark arts.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had already had two defence against the dark arts teachers, both of whom had only lasted one year. there were rumours that the job was jinxed. ‘well, i Hope_Howell he’s up to it,’ said Ronald_Weasley doubtfully. ‘he looks like one good hex would finish him off, doesn’t he? anyway …’ he turned to Harry_Potter, ‘what were you going to tell us?’ Harry_Potter explained all about mr and Molly_Weasley’s argument and the warning Arthur_Weasley had just given him. when he’d finished, Ronald_Weasley looked thunderstruck, and Hermione_Granger had her hands over her mouth. she finally lowered them to say, ‘Sirius_Black escaped to come after you? oh, Harry_Potter … you’ll have to be really, really careful. don’t go looking for trouble, Harry_Potter …’ ‘i don’t go looking for trouble,’ said Harry_Potter, nettled. ‘trouble usually finds me.’ ‘how thick would Harry_Potter have to be, to go looking for a nutter who wants to kill him?’ said Ronald_Weasley shakily. they were taking the news worse than Harry_Potter had expected. both Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger seemed to be much more frightened of black than he was. ‘no one knows how he got out of azkaban,’ said Ronald_Weasley uncomfortably. ‘no one’s ever done it before. and he was a top-security prisoner, too.’ ‘but they’ll catch him, won’t they?’ said Hermione_Granger earnestly. ‘i mean, they’ve got all the muggles looking out for him, too …’ ‘what’s that noise?’ said Ronald_Weasley suddenly. a faint, tinny sort of whistle was coming from somewhere. they looked all around the compartment. ‘it’s coming from your trunk, Harry_Potter,’ said Ronald_Weasley standing up and reaching into the luggage rack. a moment later he had pulled the pocket sneakoscope out from between Harry_Potter’s robes. it was spinning very fast in the palm of ron’s hand, and glowing brilliantly. ‘is that a sneakoscope?’ said Hermione_Granger interestedly, standing up for a better look. ‘yeah … mind you, it’s a very cheap one,’ Ronald_Weasley said. ‘it went haywire just as i was tying it to Errol’s leg to send it to Harry_Potter.’ ‘were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?’ said Hermione_Granger shrewdly. ‘no! well … i wasn’t supposed to be using Errol. you know he’s not really up to long journeys … but how else was i supposed to get Harry_Potter’s present to him?’ ‘stick it back in the trunk,’ Harry_Potter advised, as the sneakoscope whistled piercingly, ‘or it’ll wake him up.’ he nodded towards professor lupin. Ronald_Weasley stuffed the sneakoscope into a particularly horrible pair of uncle Vernon_Dursley’s old socks, which deadened the sound, then closed the lid of the trunk on it. ‘we could get it checked in hogsmeade,’ said Ronald_Weasley sitting back down. ‘they sell that sort of thing in dervish and banges, magical instruments and stuff, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley told me.’ ‘do you know much about hogsmeade?’ asked Hermione_Granger keenly. ‘i’ve read it’s the only entirely non-muggle settlement in bRita_Skeeterin –’ ‘yeah, i think it is,’ said Ronald_Weasley in an offhand sort of way, ‘but that’s not why i want to go. i just want to get inside honeydukes!’ ‘what’s that?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it’s this sweetshop,’ said Ronald_Weasley a dreamy look coming over his face, ‘where they’ve got everything … pepper imps – they make you smoke at the mouth – and great fat chocoballs full of strawberry mousse and clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills which you can suck in class and just look like you’re thinking what to write next –’ ‘but hogsmeade’s a very interesting place, isn’t it?’ Hermione_Granger pressed on eagerly. ‘in sites of historical sorcery it says the inn was the headquarters for the 1612 goblin rebellion, and the shrieking shack’s supposed to be the most severely haunted building in bRita_Skeeterin –’ ‘– and massive sherbet balls that make you levitate a few inches off the ground while you’re sucking them,’ said Ronald_Weasley who was plainly not listening to a word Hermione_Granger was saying. Hermione_Granger looked around at Harry_Potter. ‘won’t it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore hogsmeade?’ ‘’spect it will,’ said Harry_Potter heavily. ‘you’ll have to tell me when you’ve found out.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i can’t go. Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley didn’t sign my permission form, and fudge wouldn’t, either.’ Ronald_Weasley looked horrified. ‘you’re not allowed to come? but – no way – Minerva_McGonagall or someone will give you permission –’ Harry_Potter gave a hollow laugh. professor Minerva_McGonagall, head of gryffindor house, was very strict. ‘– or we can ask Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, they know every secret passage out of the castle –’ ‘ron!’ said Hermione_Granger sharply. ‘i don’t think Harry_Potter should be sneaking out of school with black on the loose –’ ‘yeah, i expect that’s what Minerva_McGonagall will say when i ask for permission,’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘but if we’re with him,’ said Ronald_Weasley spiritedly to Hermione_Granger, ‘black wouldn’t dare –’ ‘oh, Ronald_Weasley don’t talk rubbish,’ snapped Hermione_Granger. ‘black’s already murdered a whole bunch of people in the middle of a crowded street, do you really think he’s going to worry about attacking Harry_Potter just because we’re there?’ she was fumbling with the straps of Crookshanks’s basket as she spoke. ‘don’t let that thing out!’ Ronald_Weasley said, but too late; Crookshanks leapt lightly from the basket, stretched, yawned, and sprang onto ron’s knees; the lump in ron’s pocket trembled and he shoved Crookshanks angrily away. ‘get out of it!’ ‘ron, don’t!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. Ronald_Weasley was about to answer back when professor lupin stirred. they watched him apprehensively, but he simply turned his head the other way, mouth slightly open, and slept on. the hogwarts express moved steadily north and the scenery outside the window became wilder and darker while the clouds overhead thickened. people were chasing backwards and forwards past the door of their compartment. Crookshanks had now settled in an empty seat, his squashed face turned towards Ronald_Weasley his yellow eyes on ron’s top pocket. at one o’clock the plump witch with the food trolley arrived at the compartment door. ‘d’you think we should wake him up?’ Ronald_Weasley asked awkwardly, nodding towards professor lupin. ‘he looks like he could do with some food.’ Hermione_Granger approached professor lupin cautiously. ‘er – professor?’ she said. ‘excuse me – professor?’ he didn’t move. ‘don’t worry, dear,’ said the witch, as she handed Harry_Potter a large stack of cauldron cakes. ‘if he’s hungry when he wakes, i’ll be up front with the dLee_Jordan.’ ‘i suppose he is asleep?’ said Ronald_Weasley quietly, as the witch slid the compartment door closed. ‘i mean – he hasn’t died, has he?’ ‘no, no, he’s breathing,’ whispered Hermione_Granger, taking the cauldron cake Harry_Potter passed her. he might not be very good company, but professor lupin’s presence in their compartment had its uses. mid-afternoon, just as it had started to rain, blurring the rolling hills outside the window, they heard footsteps in the corridor again, and their three least favourite people appeared at the door: Draco_Malfoy, flanked by his cronies, Vincent_Crabbe and Gregory_Goyle. Draco_Malfoy and Harry_Potter had been enemies ever since they had met on their very first train journey to hogwarts. malfoy, who had a pale, pointed, sneering face, was in slytherin house; he played seeker on the slytherin quidditch team, the same position that Harry_Potter played on the gryffindor team. crabbe and Goyle seemed to exist to do malfoy’s bidding. they were both wide and muscly; crabbe was the taller, with a pudding-basin haircut and a very thick neck; Goyle had short, bristly hair and long, gorilla arms. ‘well, look who it is,’ said malfoy in his usual lazy drawl, pulling open the compartment door. ‘potty and the weasel.’ crabbe and Goyle chuckled trollishly. ‘i heard your father finally got his hands on some gold this summer, weasley,’ said malfoy. ‘did your mother die of shock?’ Ronald_Weasley stood up so quickly he knocked Crookshanks’s basket to the floor. professor lupin gave a snort. ‘who’s that?’ said malfoy, taking an automatic step backwards as he spotted lupin. ‘new teacher,’ said Harry_Potter, who had got to his feet, too, in case he needed to hold Ronald_Weasley back. ‘what were you saying, malfoy?’ malfoy’s pale eyes narrowed; he wasn’t fool enough to pick a fight right under a teacher’s nose. ‘c’mon,’ he muttered resentfully to crabbe and Goyle, and they disappeared. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley sat down again, Ronald_Weasley massaging his knuckles. ‘i’m not going to take any rubbish from malfoy this year,’ he said angrily. ‘i mean it. if he makes one more crack about my family, i’m going to get hold of his head and –’ Ronald_Weasley made a violent gesture in mid-air. ‘ron,’ hissed Hermione_Granger, pointing at professor lupin, ‘be careful …’ but professor lupin was still fast asleep. the rain thickened as the train sped yet further north; the windows were now a solid, shimmering grey, which gradually darkened until lanterns flickered into life all along the corridors and over the luggage racks. the train rattled, the rain hammered, the wind roared, but still, professor lupin slept. ‘we must be nearly there,’ said Ronald_Weasley leaning forward to look past professor lupin at the now completely black window. the words had hardly left him when the train started to slow down. ‘brilliant,’ said Ronald_Weasley getting up and walking carefully past professor lupin to try and see outside. ‘i’m starving, i want to get to the feast …’ ‘we can’t be there yet,’ said Hermione_Granger, checking her watch. ‘so why’re we stopping?’ the train was getting slower and slower. as the noise of the pistons fell away, the wind and rain sounded louder than ever against the windows. Harry_Potter, who was nearest the door, got up to look into the corridor. all along the carriage, heads were sticking curiously out of their compartments. the train came to a stop with a jolt and distant thuds and bangs told them that luggage had fallen out of the racks. then, without warning, all the lamps went out and they were plunged into total darkness. ‘what’s going on?’ said ron’s voice from behind Harry_Potter. ‘ouch!’ gasped Hermione_Granger. ‘ron, that was my foot!’ Harry_Potter felt his way back to his seat. ‘d’you think we’ve broken down?’ ‘dunno …’ there was a squeaking sound, and Harry_Potter saw the dim black outline of Ronald_Weasley wiping a patch clean on the window and peering out. ‘there’s something moving out there,’ Ronald_Weasley said. ‘i think people are coming aboard …’ the compartment door suddenly opened and someone fell painfully over Harry_Potter’s legs. ‘sorry! d’you know what’s going on? ouch! sorry –’ ‘hello, Neville_Longbottom,’ said Harry_Potter, feeling around in the dark and pulling Neville_Longbottom up by his cloak. ‘Harry_Potter? is that you? what’s happening?’ ‘no idea! sit down –’ there was a loud hissing and a yelp of pain; Neville_Longbottom had tried to sit on Crookshanks. ‘i’m going to go and ask the dLee_Jordan what’s going on,’ came Hermione_Granger’s voice. Harry_Potter felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again and then a thud and two loud squeals of pain. ‘who’s that?’ ‘who’s that?’ ‘Ginevra_Weasley?’ ‘Hermione_Granger?’ ‘what are you doing?’ ‘i was looking for Ronald_Weasley –’ ‘come in and sit down –’ ‘not here!’ said Harry_Potter hurriedly. ‘i’m here!’ ‘ouch!’ said Neville_Longbottom. ‘quiet!’ said a hoarse voice suddenly. professor lupin appeared to have woken up at last. Harry_Potter could hear movements in his corner. none of them spoke. there was a soft, crackling noise and a shivering light filled the compartment. professor lupin appeared to be holding a handful of flames. they illuminated his tired grey face, but his eyes looked alert and wary. ‘stay where you are,’ he said, in the same hoarse voice, and he got slowly to his feet with his handful of fire held out in front of him. but the door slid slowly open before lupin could reach it. standing in the doorway, illuminated by the shivering flames in lupin’s hand, was a cloaked figure that towered to the ceiling. its face was completely hidden beneath its hood. Harry_Potter’s eyes darted downwards, and what he saw made his stomach contract. there was a hand protruding from the cloak and it was glistening, greyish, slimy-looking and scabbed, like something dead that had decayed in water … it was visible only for a split second. as though the creature beneath the cloak sensed Harry_Potter’s gaze, the hand was suddenly withdrawn into the folds of the black material. and then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it was, drew a long, slow, rattling breath, as though it was trying to suck something more than air from its surroundings. an intense cold swept over them all. Harry_Potter felt his own breath catch in his chest. the cold went deeper than his skin. it was inside his chest, it was inside his very heart … Harry_Potter’s eyes rolled up into his head. he couldn’t see. he was drowning in cold. there was a rushing in his ears as though of water. he was being dragged downwards, the roaring growing louder … and then, from far away, he heard screaming, terrible, terrified, pleading screams. he wanted to help whoever it was, he tried to move his arms, but couldn’t … a thick white fog was swirling around him, inside him – ‘Harry_Potter! Harry_Potter! are you all right?’ someone was slapping his face. ‘w-what?’ Harry_Potter opened his eyes. there were lanterns above him, and the floor was shaking – the hogwarts express was moving again and the lights had come back on. he seemed to have slid out of his seat onto the floor. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were kneeling next to him, and above them he could see Neville_Longbottom and professor lupin watching. Harry_Potter felt very sick; when he put up his hand to push his glasses back on, he felt cold sweat on his face. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger heaved him back onto his seat. ‘are you ok?’ Ronald_Weasley asked nervously. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, looking quickly towards the door. the hooded creature had vanished. ‘what happened? where’s that – that thing? who screamed?’ ‘no one screamed,’ said Ronald_Weasley more nervously still. Harry_Potter looked around the bright compartment. Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom looked back at him, both very pale. ‘but i heard screaming –’ a loud snap made them all jump. professor lupin was breaking an enormous slab of chocolate into pieces. ‘here,’ he said to Harry_Potter, handing him a particularly large piece. ‘eat it. it’ll help.’ Harry_Potter took the chocolate but didn’t eat it. ‘what was that thing?’ he asked lupin. ‘a dementor,’ said lupin, who was now giving chocolate to everyone else. ‘one of the dementors of azkaban.’ everyone stared at him. professor lupin crumpled up the empty chocolate wrapper and put it in his pocket. ‘eat,’ he repeated. ‘it’ll help. i need to speak to the dLee_Jordan, excuse me …’ he strolled past Harry_Potter and disappeared into the corridor. ‘are you sure you’re ok, Harry_Potter?’ said Hermione_Granger, watching Harry_Potter anxiously. ‘i don’t get it … what happened?’ said Harry_Potter, wiping more sweat off his face. ‘well – that thing – the dementor – stood there and looked around (i mean, i think it did, i couldn’t see its face) – and you – you –’ ‘i thought you were having a fit or something,’ said Ronald_Weasley who still looked scared. ‘you went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and started twitching –’ ‘and professor lupin stepped over you, and walked towards the dementor, and pulled out his wand,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘and he said, “none of us is hiding Sirius_Black under our cloaks. go.” but the dementor didn’t move, so lupin muttered something, and a silvery thing shot out of his wand at it, and it turned round and sort of glided away …’ ‘it was horrible,’ said Neville_Longbottom, in a higher voice than usual. ‘did you feel how cold it went when it came in?’ ‘i felt weird,’ said Ronald_Weasley shifting his shoulders uncomfortably. ‘like i’d never be cheerful again …’ Ginevra_Weasley, who was huddled in her corner looking nearly as bad as Harry_Potter felt, gave a small sob; Hermione_Granger went over and put a comforting arm around her. ‘but didn’t any of you – fall off your seats?’ said Harry_Potter awkwardly. ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking anxiously at Harry_Potter again. ‘Ginevra_Weasley was shaking like mad, though …’ Harry_Potter didn’t understand. he felt weak and shivery, as though he was recovering from a bad bout of flu; he also felt the beginnings of shame. why had he gone to pieces like that, when no one else had? professor lupin had come back. he paused as he entered, looked around and said, with a small smile, ‘i haven’t poisoned that chocolate, you know …’ Harry_Potter took a bite and to his great surprise felt warmth spread suddenly to the tips of his fingers and toes. ‘we’ll be at hogwarts in ten minutes,’ said professor lupin. ‘are you all right, Harry_Potter?’ Harry_Potter didn’t ask how professor lupin knew his name. ‘fine,’ he muttered, embarrassed. they didn’t talk much during the remainder of the journey. at long last, the train stopped at hogsmeade station, and there was a great scramble to get out; owls hooted, cats miaowed, and Neville_Longbottom’s pet toad croaked loudly from under his hat. it was freezing on the tiny platform; rain was driving down in icy sheets. ‘firs’-years this way!’ called a familiar voice. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger turned and saw the gigantic outline of Rubeus_Hagrid at the other end of the platform, beckoning the terrified-looking new students forward for their traditional journey across the lake. ‘all righ’, you three?’ Rubeus_Hagrid yelled over the heads of the crowd. they waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him because the mass of people around them was shunting them away along the platform. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger followed the rest of the school out onto a rough mud track, where at least a hundred stagecoaches awaited the remaining students, each pulled, Harry_Potter could only assume, by an invisible horse, because when they climbed inside one and shut the door, the coach set off all by itself, bumping and swaying in procession. the coach smelled faintly of mould and straw. Harry_Potter felt better since the chocolate, but still weak. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger kept looking at him sideways, as though frightened he might collapse again. as the carriage trundled towards a pair of magnificent wrought-iron gates, flanked with stone columns topped with winged boars, Harry_Potter saw two more towering, hooded dementors, standing guard on either side. a wave of cold sickness threatened to engulf him again; he leant back into the lumpy seat and closed his eyes until they had passed through the gates. the carriage picked up speed on the long, sloping drive up to the castle; Hermione_Granger was leaning out of the tiny window, watching the many turrets and towers draw nearer. at last, the carriage swayed to a halt, and Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley got out. as Harry_Potter stepped down, a drawling, delighted voice sounded in his ear. ‘you fainted, potter? is longbottom telling the truth? you actually fainted?’ malfoy elbowed past Hermione_Granger to block Harry_Potter’s way up the stone steps to the castle, his face gleeful and his pale eyes glinting maliciously. ‘shove off, malfoy,’ said Ronald_Weasley whose jaw was clenched. ‘did you faint as well, weasley?’ said malfoy loudly. ‘did the scary old dementor frighten you, too, weasley?’ ‘is there a problem?’ said a mild voice. professor lupin had just got out of the next carriage. malfoy gave professor lupin an insolent stare, which took in the patches on his robes and the dilapidated suitcase. with a tiny hint of sarcasm in his voice, he said, ‘oh, no – er – professor,’ then he smirked at crabbe and Goyle, and led them up the steps into the castle. Hermione_Granger prodded Ronald_Weasley in the back to make him hurry, and the three of them joined the crowd swarming up the steps, through the giant oak front doors, and into the cavernous entrance hall, which was lit with flaming torches and housed a magnificent marble staircase which led to the upper floors. the door into the great hall stood open at the right; Harry_Potter followed the crowd towards it, but had barely glimpsed the enchanted ceiling, which was black and cloudy tonight, when a voice called, ‘potter! granger! i want to see you both!’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger turned around, surprised. professor Minerva_McGonagall, transfiguration teacher and head of gryffindor house, was calling over the heads of the crowd. she was a stern-looking witch who wore her hair in a tight bun; her sharp eyes were framed with square spectacles. Harry_Potter fought his way over to her with a feeling of foreboding; professor Minerva_McGonagall had a way of making him feel he must have done something wrong. ‘there’s no need to look so worried – i just want a word in my office,’ she told them. ‘move along there, weasley.’ Ronald_Weasley stared as professor Minerva_McGonagall ushered Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger away from the chattering crowd; they accompanied her across the entrance hall, up the marble staircase and along a corridor. once they were in her office, a small room with a large, welcoming fire, professor Minerva_McGonagall motioned Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger to sit down. she settled herself behind her desk and said abruptly, ‘professor lupin sent an owl ahead to say that you were taken ill on the train, potter.’ before Harry_Potter could reply, there was a soft knock on the door and madam pomfrey, the matron, came bustling in. Harry_Potter felt himself going red in the face. it was bad enough that he’d passed out, or whatever he had done, without everyone making all this fuss. ‘i’m fine,’ he said. ‘i don’t need anything –’ ‘oh, it’s you, is it?’ said madam pomfrey, ignoring this and bending down to stare closely at him. ‘i suppose you’ve been doing something dangerous again?’ ‘it was a dementor, Poppy_Pomfrey,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. they exchanged a dark look and madam pomfrey clucked disapprovingly. ‘setting dementors around a school,’ she muttered, pushing Harry_Potter’s hair back and feeling his forehead. ‘he won’t be the first one who collapses. yes, he’s all clammy. terrible things, they are, and the effect they have on people who are already delicate –’ ‘i’m not delicate!’ said Harry_Potter crossly. ‘of course you’re not,’ said madam pomfrey absent-mindedly, now taking his pulse. ‘what does he need?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall crisply. ‘bed rest? should he perhaps spend tonight in the hospital wing?’ ‘i’m fine!’ said Harry_Potter, jumping up. the idea of what Draco_Malfoy would say if he had to go to the hospital wing was torture. ‘well, he should have some chocolate, at the very least,’ said madam pomfrey, who was now trying to peer into Harry_Potter’s eyes. ‘i’ve already had some,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘professor lupin gave me some. he gave it to all of us.’ ‘did he, now?’ said madam pomfrey approvingly. ‘so we’ve finally got a defence against the dark arts teacher who knows his remedies.’ ‘are you sure you feel all right, potter?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall sharply. ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘very well. kindly wait outside while i have a quick word with miss granger about her timetable, then we can go down to the feast together.’ Harry_Potter went back into the corridor with madam pomfrey, who left for the hospital wing, muttering to herself. he only had to wait a few minutes; then Hermione_Granger emerged looking very happy about something, followed by professor Minerva_McGonagall, and the three of them made their way back down the marble staircase to the great hall. it was a sea of pointed black hats; each of the long house tables was lined with students, their faces glimmering by the light of thousands of candles, which were floating over the tables in mid-air. professor flitwick, who was a tiny little wizard with a shock of white hair, was carrying an ancient hat and a three-legged stool out of the hall. ‘oh,’ said Hermione_Granger softly, ‘we’ve missed the sorting!’ new students at hogwarts were sorted into houses by trying on the sorting hat, which shouted out the house they were best suited to (gryffindor, ravenclaw, hufflepuff or slytherin). professor Minerva_McGonagall strode off towards her empty seat at the staff table, and Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger set off in the other direction, as quietly as possible, towards the gryffindor table. people looked around at them as they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of them pointed at Harry_Potter. had the story of him collapsing in front of the dementor travelled that fast? he and Hermione_Granger sat down on either side of Ronald_Weasley who had saved them seats. ‘what was all that about?’ he muttered to Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter started to explain in a whisper, but at that moment the headmaster stood up to speak, and he broke off. professor Albus_Dumbledore, though very old, always gave an impression of great energy. he had several feet of long silver hair and beard, half-moon spectacles and an extremely crooked nose. he was often described as the greatest wizard of the age, but that wasn’t why Harry_Potter respected him. you couldn’t help trusting Albus_Dumbledore, and as Harry_Potter watched him beaming around at the students, he felt really calm for the first time since the dementor had entered the train compartment. ‘welcome!’ said Albus_Dumbledore, the candlelight shimmering on his beard. ‘welcome to another year at hogwarts! i have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very serious, i think it best to get it out of the way before you become befuddled by our excellent feast …’ Albus_Dumbledore cleared his throat and continued. ‘as you will all be aware after their search of the hogwarts express, our school is presently playing host to some of the dementors of azkaban, who are here on ministry of magic business.’ he paused, and Harry_Potter remembered what Arthur_Weasley had said about Albus_Dumbledore not being happy with the dementors guarding the school. ‘they are stationed at every entrance to the grounds,’ Albus_Dumbledore continued, ‘and while they are with us, i must make it plain that nobody is to leave school without permission. dementors are not to be fooled by tricks or disguises – or even invisibility cloaks,’ he added blandly, and Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley glanCedric_Diggory at each other. ‘it is not in the nature of a dementor to understand pleading or excuses. i therefore warn each and every one of you to give them no reason to harm you. i look to the prefects, and our new head boy and girl, to make sure that no student runs foul of the dementors.’ Percy_Weasley, who was sitting a few seats along from Harry_Potter, puffed out his chest again and stared around impressively. Albus_Dumbledore paused again; he looked very seriously around the hall, and nobody moved or made a sound. ‘on a happier note,’ he continued, ‘i am pleased to welcome two new teachers to our ranks this year. ‘firstly, professor lupin, who has kindly consented to fill the post of defence against the dark arts teacher.’ there was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic, applause. only those who had been in the compartment on the train with professor lupin clapped hard, Harry_Potter among them. professor lupin looked particularly shabby next to all the other teachers in their best robes. ‘look at snape!’ Ronald_Weasley hissed in Harry_Potter’s ear. professor snape, the potions master, was staring along the staff table at professor lupin. it was common knowledge that snape wanted the defence against the dark arts job, but even Harry_Potter, who hated snape, was startled at the expression twisting his thin, sallow face. it was beyond anger: it was loathing. Harry_Potter knew that expression only too well; it was the look snape wore every time he set eyes on Harry_Potter. ‘as to our second new appointment,’ Albus_Dumbledore continued, as the lukewarm applause for professor lupin died away, ‘well, i am sorry to tell you that professor kettleburn, our care of magical creatures teacher, retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. however, i am delighted to say that his place will be filled by none other than Rubeus_Hagrid, who has agreed to take on this teaching job in addition to his gamekeeping duties.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stared at each other, stunned. then they joined in with the applause, which was tumultuous at the gryffindor table in particular. Harry_Potter leant forward to see Rubeus_Hagrid, who was ruby red in the face and staring down at his enormous hands, his wide grin hidden in the tangle of his black beard. ‘we should’ve known!’ Ronald_Weasley roared, pounding the table. ‘who else would have set us a biting book?’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were the last to stop clapping, and as professor Albus_Dumbledore started speaking again, they saw that Rubeus_Hagrid was wiping his eyes on the tablecloth. ‘well, i think that’s everything of importance,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘let the feast begin!’ the golden plates and goblets before them filled suddenly with food and drink. Harry_Potter, suddenly ravenous, helped himself to everything he could reach and began to eat. it was a delicious feast; the hall echoed with talk, laughter and the clatter of knives and forks. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, however, were eager for it to finish so that they could talk to Rubeus_Hagrid. they knew how much being made a teacher would mean to him. Rubeus_Hagrid wasn’t a fully qualified wizard; he had been expelled from hogwarts in his third year, for a crime he had not committed. it had been Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger who had cleared Rubeus_Hagrid’s name last year. at long last, when the last morsels of pumpkin tart had melted from the golden platters, Albus_Dumbledore gave the word that it was time for them all to go to bed, and they got their chance. ‘congratulations, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ Hermione_Granger squealed, as they reached the teachers’ table. ‘all down ter you three,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, wiping his shining face on his napkin as he looked up at them. ‘can’ believe it … great man, Albus_Dumbledore … came straight down to me hut after professor kettleburn said he’d had enough … it’s what i always wanted …’ overcome with emotion, he buried his face in his napkin, and professor Minerva_McGonagall shooed them away. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger joined the gryffindors streaming up the marble staircase and, very tired now, along more corridors, up more and more stairs, to the hidden entrance to gryffindor tower. a large portrait of a Fat_Lady in a pink dress asked them, ‘password?’ ‘coming through, coming through!’ Percy_Weasley called from behind the crowd. ‘the new password’s fortuna major!’ ‘oh no,’ said Neville_Longbottom sadly. he always had  trouble remembering the passwords. through the portrait hole and across the common room, the girls and boys divided towards their separate staircases. Harry_Potter climbed the spiral stairs with no thought in his head except how glad he was to be back. they reached their familiar, circular dormitory with its five four-poster beds and Harry_Potter, looking around, felt he was home at last. 