– chapter seventeen – cat, rat and dog Harry_Potter’s mind had gone blank with shock. the three of them stood transfixed with horror under the invisibility cloak. the very last rays of the setting sun were casting a Bloody_Baron light over the long-shadowed grounds. then, behind them, they heard a wild howling. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid,’ Harry_Potter muttered. without thinking about what he was doing, he made to turn back, but both Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger seized his arms. ‘we can’t,’ said Ronald_Weasley who was paper white. ‘he’ll be in worse trouble if they know we’ve been to see him …’ Hermione_Granger’s breathing was shallow and uneven. ‘how – could – they?’ she choked. ‘how could they?’ ‘come on,’ said Ronald_Weasley whose teeth seemed to be chattering. they set off back towards the castle, walking slowly to keep themselves hidden under the cloak. light was fading fast now. by the time they reached open ground, darkness was settling like a spell around them. ‘scabbers, keep still,’ Ronald_Weasley hissed, clamping his hand over his chest. the rat was wriggling madly. Ronald_Weasley came to a sudden halt, trying to force scabbers deeper into his pocket. ‘what’s the matter with you, you stupid rat? stay still – ouch! he bit me!’ ‘ron, be quiet!’ Hermione_Granger whispered urgently. ‘fudge’ll be out here in a minute –’ ‘he won’t – stay – put –’ scabbers was plainly terrified. he was writhing with all his might, trying to break free of ron’s grip. ‘what’s the matter with him?’ but Harry_Potter had just seen – slinking towards them, his body low to the ground, wide yellow eyes glinting eerily in the darkness – Crookshanks. whether he could see them, or was following the sound of scabbers’s squeaks, Harry_Potter couldn’t tell. ‘Crookshanks!’ Hermione_Granger moaned. ‘no, go away, Crookshanks! go away!’    but the cat was getting nearer – ‘scabbers – no!’ too late – the rat had slipped between ron’s clutching fingers, hit the ground and scampered away. in one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him, and before Harry_Potter or Hermione_Granger could stop him, Ronald_Weasley had thrown the invisibility cloak off himself and pelted away into the darkness. ‘ron!’ Hermione_Granger moaned. she and Harry_Potter looked at each other, then followed at a sprint; it was impossible to run full out under the cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed behind them like a banner as they hurtled after ron; they could hear his feet thundering along ahead, and his shouts at Crookshanks. ‘get away from him – get away – scabbers, come here –’ there was a loud thud. ‘gotcha! get off, you stinking cat –’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger almost fell over ron; they skidded to a stop right in front of him. he was sprawled on the ground, but scabbers was back in his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the quivering lump. ‘ron – come on – back under the cloak –’ Hermione_Granger panted. ‘Albus_Dumbledore – the minister – they’ll be coming back out in a minute –’ but before they could cover themselves again, before they could even catch their breath, they heard the soft pounding of gigantic paws. something was bounding towards them out of the dark – an enormous, pale-eyed, jet-black dog. Harry_Potter reached for his wand, but too late – the dog had made an enormous leap and its front paws hit him on the chest. he keeled over backwards in a whirl of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch-long teeth – but the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled off him; dazed, feeling as though his ribs were broken, Harry_Potter tried to stand up; he could hear it growling as it skidded around for a new attack. Ronald_Weasley was on his feet. as the dog sprang back towards them, he pushed Harry_Potter aside; the dog’s jaws fastened instead around ron’s outstretched arm. Harry_Potter lunged at it and seized a handful of the brute’s hair, but it was dragging Ronald_Weasley away as easily as if he were a rag-doll – then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry_Potter so hard across the face he was knocked off his feet again. he heard Hermione_Granger shriek with pain and fall, too. Harry_Potter groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his eyes – ‘lumos!’ he whispered. the wand-light showed him the trunk of a thick tree; they had chased scabbers into the shadow of the whomping willow and its branches were creaking as though in a high wind, whipping backwards and forwards to stop them going nearer. and there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, dragging Ronald_Weasley backwards into a large gap in the roots – Ronald_Weasley was fighting furiously, but his head and torso were slipping out of sight – ‘ron!’ Harry_Potter shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy branch whipped lethally through the air and he was forCedric_Diggory backwards again. all they could see now was one of ron’s legs, which he had hooked around a root in an effort to stop the dog pulling him further underground. then a horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; ron’s leg had broken, and next second, his foot had vanished from sight. ‘Harry_Potter – we’ve got to go for help –’ Hermione_Granger cried; she was bleeding, too; the willow had cut her across the shoulder. ‘no! that thing’s big enough to eat him, we haven’t got time –’ ‘we’re never going to get through without help –’ another branch whipped down at them, twigs clenched like knuckles. ‘if that dog can get in, we can,’ Harry_Potter panted, darting here and there, trying to find a way through the vicious, swishing branches, but he couldn’t get an inch nearer to the tree-roots without being in range of the tree’s blows. ‘oh, help, help,’ Hermione_Granger whispered frantically, dancing uncertainly on the spot, ‘please …’ Crookshanks darted forwards. he slithered between the battering branches like a snake and plaCedric_Diggory his front paws upon a knot on the trunk. abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to marble, it stopped moving. not a leaf twitched or shook. ‘Crookshanks!’ Hermione_Granger whispered uncertainly. she now grasped Harry_Potter’s arm painfully hard. ‘how did he know –?’ ‘he’s friends with that dog,’ said Harry_Potter grimly. ‘i’ve seen them together. come on – and keep your wand out –’ they covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, but before they had reached the gap in the roots, Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick of his bottle-brush tail. Harry_Potter went next; he crawled forwards, headfirst, and slid down an earthy slope to the bottom of a very low tunnel. Crookshanks was a little way along, his eyes flashing in the light from Harry_Potter’s wand. seconds later, Hermione_Granger slithered down beside him. ‘where’s Ronald_Weasley’ she whispered in a terrified voice. ‘this way,’ said Harry_Potter, setting off, bent-backed, after Crookshanks. ‘where does this tunnel come out?’ Hermione_Granger asked breathlessly from behind him. ‘i don’t know … it’s marked on the marauder’s map but Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley said no one’s ever got into it. it goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it ends up in hogsmeade …’ they moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; ahead of them, Crookshanks’s tail bobbed in and out of view. on and on went the passage; it felt at least as long as the one to honeydukes. all Harry_Potter could think of was Ronald_Weasley and what the enormous dog might be doing to him … he was drawing breath in sharp, painful gasps, running at a crouch … and then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it twisted, and Crookshanks had gone. instead, Harry_Potter could see a patch of dim light through a small opening. he and Hermione_Granger paused, gasping for breath, edging forwards. both raised their wands to see what lay beyond. it was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. paper was peeling from the walls; there were stains all over the floor; every piece of furniture was broken as though somebody had smashed it. the windows were all boarded-up. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory at Hermione_Granger, who looked very frightened, but nodded. Harry_Potter pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. the room was deserted, but a door to their right stood open, leading to a shadowy hallway. Hermione_Granger suddenly grabbed Harry_Potter’s arm again. her wide eyes were travelling around the boarded windows. ‘Harry_Potter,’ she whispered. ‘i think we’re in the shrieking shack.’ Harry_Potter looked around. his eyes fell on a wooden chair near them. large chunks had been torn out of it; one of the legs had been ripped off entirely. ‘ghosts didn’t do that,’ he said slowly. at that moment, there was a creak overhead. something had moved upstairs. both of them looked up at the ceiling. Hermione_Granger’s grip on Harry_Potter’s arm was so tight he was losing feeling in his fingers. he raised his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go. quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and up the crumbling staircase. everything was covered in a thick layer of dust except the floor, where a wide, shiny stripe had been made by something being dragged upstairs. they reached the dark landing. ‘nox,’ they whispered together, and the lights at the end of their wands went out. only one door was open. as they crept towards it, they heard movement from behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. they exchanged a last look, a last nod. wand held tightly before him, Harry_Potter kicked the door wide open. on a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings, lay Crookshanks, purring loudly at the sight of them. on the floor beside him, clutching his leg, which stuck out at a strange angle, was Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger dashed across to him. ‘ron – are you ok?’ ‘where’s the dog?’ ‘not a dog,’ Ronald_Weasley moaned. his teeth were gritted with pain. ‘Harry_Potter, it’s a trap –’ ‘what –’ ‘he’s the dog … he’s an animagus …’ Ronald_Weasley was staring over Harry_Potter’s shoulder. Harry_Potter wheeled around. with a snap, the man in the shadows closed the door behind them. a mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. if eyes hadn’t been shining out of the deep, dark sockets, he might have been a corpse. the waxy skin was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it looked like a skull. his yellow teeth were bared in a grin. it was Sirius_Black. ‘expelliarmus!’ he croaked, pointing ron’s wand at them. Harry_Potter’s and Hermione_Granger’s wands shot out of their hands, high in the air, and black caught them. then he took a step closer. his eyes were fixed on Harry_Potter. ‘i thought you’d come and help your friend,’ he said hoarsely. his voice sounded as though he had long ago lost the habit of using it. ‘your father would have done the same for me. brave of you, not to run for a teacher. i’m grateful … it will make everything much easier …’ the taunt about his father rang in Harry_Potter’s ears as though black had bellowed it. a boiling hate erupted in Harry_Potter’s chest, leaving no place for fear. for the first time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his hand, not to defend himself, but to attack … to kill. without knowing what he was doing, he started forwards, but there was a sudden movement on either side of him and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him back. ‘no, Harry_Potter!’ Hermione_Granger gasped in a petrified whisper; Ronald_Weasley however, spoke to black. ‘if you want to kill Harry_Potter, you’ll have to kill us, too!’ he said fiercely, though the effort of standing up had drained him of still more colour, and he swayed slightly as he spoke. something flickered in black’s shadowed eyes. ‘lie down,’ he said quietly to Ronald_Weasley ‘you will damage that leg even more.’ ‘did you hear me?’ Ronald_Weasley said weakly, though he was clinging painfully to Harry_Potter to stay upright. ‘you’ll have to kill all three of us!’ ‘there’ll only be one murder here tonight,’ said black, and his grin widened. ‘why’s that?’ Harry_Potter spat, trying to wrench himself free of Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘didn’t care last time, did you? didn’t mind slaughtering all those muggles to get at pettigrew … what’s the matter, gone soft in azkaban?’ ‘Harry_Potter!’ Hermione_Granger whimpered. ‘be quiet!’ ‘he killed my mum and dad!’ Harry_Potter roared, and with a huge effort he broke free of Hermione_Granger and ron’s restraint and lunged forwards – he had forgotten about magic – he had forgotten that he was short and skinny and thirteen, whereas black was a tall, full-grown man. all Harry_Potter knew was that he wanted to hurt black as badly as he could and that he didn’t care how much he got hurt in return … perhaps it was the shock of Harry_Potter doing something so stupid, but black didn’t raise the wands in time. one of Harry_Potter’s hands fastened over black’s wasted wrist, forcing the wandtips away; the knuckles of Harry_Potter’s other hand collided with the side of black’s head and they fell, backwards, into the wall – Hermione_Granger was screaming; Ronald_Weasley was yelling; there was a blinding flash as the wands in black’s hand sent into the air a jet of sparks which missed Harry_Potter’s face by inches; Harry_Potter felt the shrunken arm under his fingers twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand punching every part of black it could find. but black’s free hand had found Harry_Potter’s throat – ‘no,’ he hissed. ‘i’ve waited too long –’ the fingers tightened, Harry_Potter choked, his glasses askew. then he saw Hermione_Granger’s foot swing out of nowhere. black let go of Harry_Potter with a grunt of pain. Ronald_Weasley had thrown himself on black’s wand hand and Harry_Potter heard a faint clatter – he fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own wand rolling across the floor; he threw himself towards it but – ‘argh!’ Crookshanks had joined the fray; both sets of front claws had sunk themselves deep into Harry_Potter’s arm; Harry_Potter threw him off, but Crookshanks now darted towards Harry_Potter’s wand – ‘no you don’t!’ roared Harry_Potter, and he aimed a kick at Crookshanks that made the cat leap aside, spitting; Harry_Potter snatched up his wand and turned – ‘get out of the way!’ he shouted at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. they didn’t need telling twice. Hermione_Granger, gasping for breath, her lip bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching up her and ron’s wands. Ronald_Weasley crawled to the four-poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face now tinged with green, both hands clutching his broken leg. black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. his thin chest rose and fell rapidly as he watched Harry_Potter walking slowly nearer, his wand pointing straight at black’s heart. ‘going to kill me, Harry_Potter?’ he whispered. Harry_Potter stopped right above him, his wand still pointing at black’s chest, looking down at him. a livid bruise was rising around black’s left eye and his nose was bleeding. ‘you killed my parents,’ said Harry_Potter, his voice shaking slightly, but his wand hand quite steady. black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes. ‘i don’t deny it,’ he said, very quietly. ‘but if you knew the whole story –’ ‘the whole story?’ Harry_Potter repeated, a furious pounding in his ears. ‘you sold them to voldemort, that’s all i need to know!’ ‘you’ve got to listen to me,’ black said, and there was a note of urgency in his voice now. ‘you’ll regret it if you don’t … you don’t understand …’ ‘i understand a lot better than you think,’ said Harry_Potter, and his voice shook more than ever. ‘you never heard her, did you? my mum … trying to stop voldemort killing me … and you did that … you did it …’ before either of them could say another word, something ginger streaked past Harry_Potter; Crookshanks leapt onto black’s chest, and settled himself there, right over black’s heart. black blinked and looked down at the cat. ‘get off,’ he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks off him. but Crookshanks sank his claws into black’s robes and wouldn’t shift. he turned his ugly, squashed face to Harry_Potter, and looked up at him with those great yellow eyes. to his right, Hermione_Granger gave a dry sob. Harry_Potter stared down at black and Crookshanks, his grip tightening on the wand. so what if he had to kill the cat, too? it was in league with black … if it was prepared to die, trying to protect black, that wasn’t Harry_Potter’s business … if black wanted to save it, that only proved he cared more for Crookshanks than Harry_Potter’s parents … Harry_Potter raised the wand. now was the moment to do it. now was the moment to avenge his mother and father. he was going to kill black. he had to kill black. this was his chance … the seconds lengthened, and still Harry_Potter stood frozen there, wand poised, black staring up at him, Crookshanks on his chest. ron’s ragged breathing came from the bed; Hermione_Granger was quite silent. and then came a new sound – muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor – someone was moving downstairs. ‘we’re up here!’ Hermione_Granger screamed suddenly. ‘we’re up here – Sirius_Black – quick!’ black made a startled movement that almost dislodged Crookshanks; Harry_Potter gripped his wand convulsively – do it now! said a voice in his head – but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and Harry_Potter still hadn’t done it. the door of the room burst open in a shower of red sparks and Harry_Potter wheeled around as professor lupin came hurtling into the room, his face bloodless, his wand raised and ready. his eyes flickered over Ronald_Weasley lying on the floor, over Hermione_Granger, cowering next to the door, to Harry_Potter, standing there with his wand covering black, and then to black himself, crumpled and bleeding at Harry_Potter’s feet. ‘expelliarmus!’ lupin shouted. Harry_Potter’s wand flew once more out of his hand; so did the two Hermione_Granger was holding. lupin caught them all deftly, then moved into the room, staring at black, who still had Crookshanks lying protectively across his chest. Harry_Potter stood there, feeling suddenly empty. he hadn’t done it. his nerve had failed him. black was going to be handed back to the dementors. then lupin spoke, in an odd voice, a voice that shook with some suppressed emotion. ‘where is he, Sirius_Black?’ Harry_Potter looked quickly at lupin. he didn’t understand what lupin meant. who was lupin talking about? he turned to look at black again. black’s face was quite expressionless. for a few seconds, he didn’t move at all. then, very slowly, he raised his empty hand, and pointed straight at Ronald_Weasley mystified, Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory around at Ronald_Weasley who looked bewildered. ‘but then …’ lupin muttered, staring at black so intently it seemed he was trying to read his mind, ‘… why hasn’t he shown himself before now? unless –’ lupin’s eyes suddenly widened, as though he was seeing something beyond black, something none of the rest could see, ‘– unless he was the one … unless you switched … without telling me?’ very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving lupin’s face, black nodded. ‘professor lupin,’ Harry_Potter interrupted loudly, ‘what’s going –?’ but he never finished the question, because what he saw made his voice die in his throat. lupin was lowering his wand. next moment, he had walked to black’s side, seized his hand, pulled him to his feet so that Crookshanks fell to the floor, and embraCedric_Diggory black like a brother. Harry_Potter felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomach. ‘i don’t believe it!’ Hermione_Granger screamed. lupin let go of black and turned to her. she had raised herself off the floor, and was pointing at lupin, wild-eyed. ‘you – you –’ ‘Hermione_Granger –’ ‘– you and him!’ ‘Hermione_Granger, calm down –’ ‘i didn’t tell anyone!’ Hermione_Granger shrieked. ‘i’ve been covering up for you –’ ‘Hermione_Granger, listen to me, please!’ lupin shouted. ‘i can explain –’ Harry_Potter could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but with a fresh wave of fury. ‘i trusted you,’ he shouted at lupin, his voice wavering out of control, ‘and all the time you’ve been his friend!’ ‘you’re wrong,’ said lupin. ‘i haven’t been Sirius_Black’ friend for twelve years, but i am now … let me explain …’ ‘no!’ Hermione_Granger screamed, ‘Harry_Potter, don’t trust him, he’s been helping black get into the castle, he wants you dead too – he’s a werewolf!’ there was a ringing silence. everyone’s eyes were now on lupin, who looked remarkably calm, though rather pale. ‘not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione_Granger,’ he said. ‘only one out of three, i’m afraid. i have not been helping Sirius_Black get into the castle and i certainly don’t want Harry_Potter dead …’ an odd shiver passed over his face. ‘but i won’t deny that i am a werewolf.’ Ronald_Weasley made a valiant effort to get up again, but fell back with a whimper of pain. lupin made towards him, looking concerned, but Ronald_Weasley gasped, ‘get away from me, werewolf!’ lupin stopped dead. then, with an obvious effort, he turned to Hermione_Granger and said, ‘how long have you known?’ ‘ages,’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘since i did professor snape’s essay …’ ‘he’ll be delighted,’ said lupin coolly. ‘he set that essay hoping someone would realise what my symptoms meant. did you check the Luna_Lovegoodr chart and realise that i was always ill at the full moon? or did you realise that the boggart changed into the moon when it saw me?’ ‘both,’ Hermione_Granger said quietly. lupin forCedric_Diggory a laugh. ‘you’re the cleverest witch of your age i’ve ever met, Hermione_Granger.’ ‘i’m not,’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘if i’d been a bit cleverer, i’d have told everyone what you are!’ ‘but they already know,’ said lupin. ‘at least, the staff do.’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a werewolf?’ Ronald_Weasley gasped. ‘is he mad?’ ‘some of the staff thought so,’ said lupin. ‘he had to work very hard to convince certain teachers that i’m trustworthy –’ ‘and he was wrong!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘you’ve been helping him all the time!’ he was pointing at black, who had crossed to the four-poster bed and sunk onto it, his face hidden in one shaking hand. Crookshanks leapt up beside him and stepped onto his lap, purring. Ronald_Weasley edged away from both of them, dragging his leg. ‘i have not been helping Sirius_Black,’ said lupin. ‘if you’ll give me a chance, i’ll explain. look –’ he separated Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s wands and threw each back to its owner; Harry_Potter caught his, stunned. ‘there,’ said lupin, sticking his own wand back into his belt. ‘you’re armed, we’re not. now will you listen?’ Harry_Potter didn’t know what to think. was it a trick? ‘if you haven’t been helping him,’ he said, with a furious glance at black, ‘how did you know he was here?’ ‘the map,’ said lupin. ‘the marauder’s map. i was in my office examining it –’ ‘you know how to work it?’ Harry_Potter said suspiciously. ‘of course i know how to work it,’ said lupin, waving his hand impatiently. ‘i helped write it. i’m Remus_Lupin – that was my friends’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtonname for me at school.’ ‘you wrote –?’ ‘the important thing is, i was watching it carefully this evening, because i had an idea that you, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger might try and sneak out of the castle to visit Rubeus_Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed. and i was right, wasn’t i?’ he had started to pace up and down, looking at them. little patches of dust rose at his feet. ‘you might have been wearing your father’s old cloak, Harry_Potter –’ ‘how d’you know about the cloak?’ ‘the number of times i saw James_Potter_I disappearing under it …’ said lupin, waving an impatient hand again. ‘the point is, even if you’re wearing an invisibility cloak you show up on the marauder’s map. i watched you cross the grounds and enter Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut. twenty minutes later, you left Rubeus_Hagrid, and set off back towards the castle. but you were now accompanied by somebody else.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no, we weren’t!’ ‘i couldn’t believe my eyes,’ said lupin, still pacing, and ignoring Harry_Potter’s interruption. ‘i thought the map must be malfunctioning. how could he be with you?’ ‘no one was with us!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘and then i saw another dot, moving fast towards you, labelled Sirius_Black … i saw him collide with you, i watched as he pulled two of you into the whomping willow –’ ‘one of us!’ Ronald_Weasley said angrily. ‘no, Ronald_Weasley’ said lupin. ‘two of you.’ he had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ronald_Weasley ‘do you think i could have a look at the rat?’ he said evenly. ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘what’s scabbers got to do with it?’ ‘everything,’ said lupin. ‘could i see him, please?’ Ronald_Weasley hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. scabbers emerged, thrashing desperately; Ronald_Weasley had to seize his long bald tail to stop him escaping. Crookshanks stood up on black’s lap and made a soft hissing noise. lupin moved closer to Ronald_Weasley he seemed to be holding his breath as he gazed intently at scabbers. ‘what?’ Ronald_Weasley said again, holding scabbers close to him, looking scared. ‘what’s my rat got to do with anything?’ ‘that’s not a rat,’ croaked Sirius_Black suddenly. ‘what d’you mean – of course he’s a rat –’ ‘no, he’s not,’ said lupin quietly. ‘he’s a wizard.’ ‘an animagus,’ said black, ‘by the name of Peter_Pettigrew.’ 