— chapter six — Draco_Malfoy’s detour Harry_Potter remained within the confines of the burrow’s garden over the next few weeks. he spent most of his days playing two-a-side quidditch in the weasleys’ orchard (he and Hermione_Granger against Ronald_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley; Hermione_Granger was dreadful and Ginevra_Weasley good, so they were reasonably well-matched) and his evenings eating triple helpings of everything Molly_Weasley put in front of him. it would have been a happy, peaceful holiday had it not been for the stories of disappearances, odd accidents, even of deaths now appearing almost daily in the prophet. sometimes William_Weasley and Arthur_Weasley brought home news before it even reached the paper. to Molly_Weasley’s displeasure, Harry_Potter’s sixteenth birthday celebrations were marred by grisly tidings brought to the party by Remus_Lupin, who was looking gaunt and grim, his brown hair streaked liberally with grey, his clothes more ragged and patched than ever. ‘there have been another couple of dementor attacks,’ he announced, as Molly_Weasley passed him a large slice of birthday cake. ‘and they’ve found Igor_Karkaroff’s body in a shack up north. the dark mark had been set over it – well, Frank_Longbottomly, i’m surprised he stayed alive for even a year after deserting the death eaters; Sirius_Black’s brother Regulus_Black only managed a few days as far as i can remember.’ ‘yes, well,’ said Molly_Weasley, frowning, ‘perhaps we should talk about something diff—’ ‘did you hear about Florean_Fortescue, Remus_Lupin?’ asked bill, who was being plied with wine by Fleur_Delacour. ‘the man who ran –’ ‘– the ice-cream place in diagon alley?’ Harry_Potter interrupted, with an unpleasant, hollow sensation in the pit of his stomach. ‘he used to give me free ice creams. what’s happened to him?’ ‘dragged off, by the look of his place.’ ‘why?’ asked Ronald_Weasley while Molly_Weasley pointedly glared at bill. ‘who knows? he must’ve upset them somehow. he was a good man, Florean_Fortescue.’    ‘talking of diagon alley,’ said Arthur_Weasley, ‘looks like Garrick_Ollivander’s gone too.’ ‘the wand-maker?’ said Ginevra_Weasley, looking startled. ‘that’s the one. shop’s empty. no sign of a struggle. no one knows whether he left voluntarily or was kidnapped.’ ‘but wands – what’ll people do for wands?’ ‘they’ll make do with other makers,’ said lupin. ‘but Garrick_Ollivander was the best, and if the other side have got him it’s not so good for us.’ the day after this rather Gloomy_nuns birthday tea, their letters and book lists arrived from hogwarts. Harry_Potter’s included a surprise: he had been made quidditch captain. ‘that gives you equal status with prefects!’ cried Hermione_Granger happily. ‘you can use our special bathroom now, and everything!’ ‘wow, i remember when Charles_Weasley wore one of these,’ said Ronald_Weasley examining the badge with glee. ‘Harry_Potter, this is so cool, you’re my captain – if you let me back on the team, i suppose, ha ha …’ ‘well, i don’t suppose we can put off a trip to diagon alley much longer now you’ve got these,’ sighed Molly_Weasley, looking down ron’s book list. ‘we’ll go on saturday as long as your father doesn’t have to go into work again. i’m not going there without him.’ ‘mum, d’you honestly think Tom_Riddle’s going to be hiding behind a bookshelf in flourish and blotts?’ sniggered Ronald_Weasley ‘fortescue and Garrick_Ollivander went on holiday, did they?’ said Molly_Weasley, firing up at once. ‘if you think security’s a laughing matter you can stay behind and i’ll get your things myself –’ ‘no, i wanna come, i want to see Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s shop!’ said Ronald_Weasley hastily. ‘then you just buck up your ideas, young man, before i decide you’re too immature to come with us!’ said Molly_Weasley angrily, snatching up her clock, all nine hands of which were still pointing at mortal peril, and balancing it on top of a pile of just-laundered towels. ‘and that goes for returning to hogwarts, as well!’ Ronald_Weasley turned to stare incredulously at Harry_Potter as his mother hoisted the laundry basket and the teetering clock into her arms and stormed out of the room. ‘blimey … you can’t even make a joke round here any more …’ but Ronald_Weasley was careful not to be flippant about voldemort over the next few days. saturday dawned without any more outbursts from Molly_Weasley, though she seemed very tense at breakfast. bill, who would be staying at home with Fleur_Delacour (much to Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley’s pleasure), passed a full money-bag across the table to Harry_Potter. ‘where’s mine?’ demanded Ronald_Weasley at once, his eyes wide. ‘that’s already Harry_Potter’s, idiot,’ said bill. ‘i got it out of your vault for you, Harry_Potter, because it’s taking about five hours for the public to get to their gold at the moment, the goblins have tightened security so much. two days ago arkie philpott had a probity probe stuck up his … well, trust me, this way’s easier.’ ‘thanks, bill,’ said Harry_Potter, pocketing his gold. ‘’e is always so thoughtful,’ purred Fleur_Delacour adoringly, stroking bill’s nose. Ginevra_Weasley mimed vomiting into her cereal behind Fleur_Delacour. Harry_Potter choked over his cornflakes and Ronald_Weasley thumped him on the back. it was an overcast, murky day. one of the special ministry of magic cars, in which Harry_Potter had ridden once before, was awaiting them in the front yard when they emerged from the house pulling on their cloaks. ‘it’s good dad can get us these again,’ said Ronald_Weasley appreciatively, stretching luxuriously as the car moved smoothly away from the burrow, William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour waving from the kitchen window. he, Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley were all sitting in roomy comfort in the wide back seat. ‘don’t get used to it, it’s only because of Harry_Potter,’ said Arthur_Weasley over his shoulder. he and Molly_Weasley were in front with the ministry dLee_Jordan; the front passenger seat had obligingly stretched into what resembled a two-seater sofa. ‘he’s been given top-grade security status. and we’ll be joining up with additional security at the leaky cauldron, too.’ Harry_Potter said nothing; he did not much fancy doing his shopping while surrounded by a battalion of aurors. he had stowed his invisibility cloak in his backpack and felt that, if that was good enough for Albus_Dumbledore, it ought to be good enough for the ministry, though now he came to think of it, he was not sure the ministry knew about his cloak. ‘here you are, then,’ said the dLee_Jordan a surprisingly short while later, speaking for the first time as he slowed in charing cross road and stopped outside the leaky cauldron. ‘i’m to wait for you, any idea how long you’ll be?’ ‘a couple of hours, i expect,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘ah, good, he’s here!’ Harry_Potter imitated Arthur_Weasley and peered through the window; his heart leapt. there were no aurors waiting outside the inn, but instead the gigantic, black- bearded form of Rubeus_Hagrid, the hogwarts gamekeeper, wearing a long beaverskin coat, beaming at the sight of Harry_Potter’s face and oblivious to the startled stares of passing muggles. ‘Harry_Potter!’ he boomed, sweeping Harry_Potter into a bone-crushing hug the moment Harry_Potter had stepped out of the car. ‘Buckbeak – Buckbeak, i mean – yeh should see him, Harry_Potter, he’s so happy ter be back in the open air –’ ‘glad he’s pleased,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning as he massaged his ribs. ‘we didn’t know “security” meant you!’ ‘i know, jus’ like old times, innit? see, the ministry wanted ter send a bunch o’ aurors, but Albus_Dumbledore said i’d do,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid proudly, throwing out his chest and tucking his thumbs into his pockets. ‘let’s get goin’, then – after yeh, Molly_Weasley, Arthur_Weasley –’ the leaky cauldron was, for the first time in Harry_Potter’s memory, completely empty. only Tom_Riddle the landlord, wizened and toothless, remained of the old crowd. he looked up Hope_Howellfully as they entered, but before he could speak, Rubeus_Hagrid said importantly, ‘jus’ passin’ through today, tom, sure yeh understand. hogwarts business, yeh know.’ Tom_Riddle nodded gloomily and returned to wiping glasses; Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger, Rubeus_Hagrid and the weasleys walked through the bar and out into the chilly little courtyard at the back where the dustbins stood. Rubeus_Hagrid raised his pink umbrella and rapped a certain brick in the wall, which opened at once to form an archway on to a winding cobbled street. they stepped through the entrance and paused, looking around. diagon alley had changed. the colourful, glittering window displays of spellbooks, potion ingredients and cauldrons were lost to view, hidden behind the large ministry of magic posters that had been pasted over them. most of these sombre purple posters carried blown-up versions of the security advice on the ministry pamphlets that had been sent out over the summer, but others bore moving black-and-white photographs of death eaters known to be on the loose. Bellatrix_Lestrange was sneering from the front of the nearest apothecary. a few windows were boarded up, including those of Florean_Fortescue’s ice-cream parlour. on the other hand, a number of shabby- looking stalls had sprung up along the street. the nearest one, which had been erected outside flourish and blotts under a striped, stained awning, had a cardboard sign pinned to its front: amulets: effective against werewolves, dementors and inferi   a seedy-looking little wizard was rattling armfuls of silver symbols on chains at passers-by. ‘one for your little girl, madam?’ he called at Molly_Weasley as they passed, leering at Ginevra_Weasley. ‘protect her pretty neck?’ ‘if i were on duty …’ said Arthur_Weasley, glaring angrily at the amulet seller. ‘yes, but don’t go arresting anyone now, dear, we’re in a hurry,’ said Molly_Weasley, nervously consulting a list. ‘i think we’d better do madam Malkin’s first, Hermione_Granger wants new dress robes and ron’s showing much too much ankle in his school robes, and you must need new ones too, Harry_Potter, you’ve grown so much – come on, everyone –’ ‘Molly_Weasley, it doesn’t make sense for all of us to go to madam Malkin’s,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘why don’t those three go with Rubeus_Hagrid, and we can go to flourish and blotts and get everyone’s school books?’ ‘i don’t know,’ said Molly_Weasley anxiously, clearly torn between a desire to finish the shopping quickly and the wish to stick together in a pack. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, do you think –?’ ‘don’ fret, they’ll be fine with me, Molly_Weasley,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid soothingly, waving an airy hand the size of a dustbin lid. Molly_Weasley did not look entirely convinced, but allowed the separation, scurrying off towards flourish and blotts with her husband and Ginevra_Weasley while Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and Rubeus_Hagrid set off for madam Malkin’s. Harry_Potter noticed that many of the people who passed them had the same harried, anxious look as Molly_Weasley, and that nobody was stopping to talk any more; the shoppers stayed together in their own tightly knit groups, moving intently about their business. nobody seemed to be shopping alone. ‘migh’ be a bit of a squeeze in there with all o’ us,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, stopping outside madam Malkin’s and bending down to peer through the window. ‘i’ll stand guard outside, all righ’?’ so Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger entered the little shop together. it appeared, at first glance, to be empty, but no sooner had the door swung shut behind them than they heard a familiar voice issuing from behind a rack of dress robes in spangled green and blue. ‘… not a child, in case you haven’t noticed, mother. i am perfectly capable of doing my shopping alone.’ there was a clucking noise and a voice Harry_Potter recognised as that of madam Malkin said, ‘now, dear, your mother’s quite right, none of us is supposed to go wandering around on our own any more, it’s nothing to do with being a child –’ ‘watch where you’re sticking that pin, will you!’ a teenage boy with a pale, pointed face and white-blond hair appeared from behind the rack wearing a handsome set of dark green robes that glittered with pins around the hem and the edges of the sleeves. he strode to the mirror and examined himself; it was a few moments before he noticed Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger reflected over his shoulder. his light grey eyes narrowed. ‘if you’re wondering what the smell is, mother, a mudblood just walked in,’ said Draco_Malfoy. ‘i don’t think there’s any need for language like that!’ said madam Malkin, scurrying out from behind the clothes rack holding a tape measure and a wand. ‘and i don’t want wands drawn in my shop, either!’ she added hastily, for a glance towards the door had shown her Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley both standing there with their wands out and pointing at malfoy. Hermione_Granger, who was standing slightly behind them, whispered, ‘no, don’t, honestly, it’s not worth it …’ ‘yeah, like you’d dare do magic out of school,’ sneered malfoy. ‘who blacked your eye, granger? i want to send them flowers.’ ‘that’s quite enough!’ said madam Malkin sharply, looking over her shoulder for support. ‘madam – please –’ Narcissa_Malfoy strolled out from behind the clothes rack. ‘put those away,’ she said coldly to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ‘if you attack my son again, i shall ensure that it is the last thing you ever do.’ ‘really?’ said Harry_Potter, taking a step forwards and gazing into the smoothly arrogant face that, for all its pallor, still resembled her sister’s. he was as tall as she was now. ‘going to get a few death eater pals to do us in, are you?’ madam Malkin squealed and clutched at her heart. ‘really, you shouldn’t accuse – dangerous thing to say – wands away, please!’ but Harry_Potter did not lower his wand. Narcissa_Malfoy smiled unpleasantly. ‘i see that being Albus_Dumbledore’s favourite has given you a false sense of security, Harry_Potter. but Albus_Dumbledore won’t always be there to protect you.’ Harry_Potter looked mockingly all around the shop. ‘wow … look at that … he’s not here now! so why not have a go? they might be able to find you a double cell in azkaban with your loser of a husband!’ malfoy made an angry movement towards Harry_Potter, but stumbled over his overlong robe. Ronald_Weasley laughed loudly. ‘don’t you dare talk to my mother like that, potter!’ malfoy snarled. ‘it’s all right, Draco_Malfoy,’ said Narcissa_Malfoy, restraining him with her thin white fingers upon his shoulder. ‘i expect potter will be reunited with dear Sirius_Black before i am reunited with Lucius_Malfoy.’ Harry_Potter raised his wand higher. ‘Harry_Potter, no!’ moaned Hermione_Granger, grabbing his arm and attempting to push it down by his side. ‘think … you mustn’t … you’ll be in such trouble …’ madam Malkin dithered for a moment on the spot, then seemed to decide to act as though nothing was happening in the Hope_Howell that it wouldn’t. she bent towards malfoy, who was still glaring at Harry_Potter. ‘i think this left sleeve could come up a little bit more, dear, let me just –’ ‘ouch!’ bellowed malfoy, slapping her hand away, ‘watch where you’re putting your pins, woman! mother – i don’t think i want these any more –’ he pulled the robes over his head and threw them on to the floor at madam Malkin’s feet. ‘you’re right, Draco_Malfoy,’ said Narcissa_Malfoy, with a contemptuous glance at Hermione_Granger, ‘now i know the kind of scum that shops here … we’ll do better at twilfitt and tatting’s.’ and with that, the pair of them strode out of the shop, malfoy taking care to bang as hard as he could into Ronald_Weasley on the way out. ‘well, really!’ said madam Malkin, snatching up the fallen robes and moving the tip of her wand over them like a vacuum cleaner, so that it removed the dust. she was distracted all through the fitting of Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter’s new robes, tried to sell Hermione_Granger wizard’s dress robes instead of witch’s, and when she finally bowed them out of the shop it was with an air of being glad to see the back of them. ‘got ev’rything?’ asked Rubeus_Hagrid brightly when they reappeared at his side. ‘just about,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘did you see the malfoys?’ ‘yeah,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, unconcerned. ‘bu’ they wouldn’ dare make trouble in the middle o’ diagon alley, Harry_Potter, don’ worry abou’ them.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged looks, but before they could disabuse Rubeus_Hagrid of this comfortable notion mr and Molly_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley appeared, all clutching heavy packages of books. ‘everyone all right?’ said Molly_Weasley. ‘got your robes? right then, we can pop in at the apothecary and eeylops on the way to Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s – stick close, now …’ neither Harry_Potter nor Ronald_Weasley bought any ingredients at the apothecary, seeing that they were no longer studying potions, but both bought large boxes of owl nuts for Hedwig and Pigwidgeon at eeylops owl emporium. then, with Molly_Weasley checking her watch every minute or so, they headed further along the street in search of weasleys’ wizard wheezes, the joke shop run by Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. ‘we really haven’t got too long,’ Molly_Weasley said. ‘so we’ll just have a quick look around and then back to the car. we must be close, that’s number ninety-two … ninety-four …’ ‘whoa,’ said Ronald_Weasley stopping in his tracks. set against the dull, poster-muffled shop fronts around them, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s windows hit the eye like a firework display. casual passers-by were looking back over their shoulders at the windows, and a few rather stunned- looking people had actually come to a halt, transfixed. the left-hand window was dazzlingly full of an assortment of goods that revolved, popped, flashed, bounced and shrieked; Harry_Potter’s eyes began to water just looking at it. the right-hand window was covered with a gigantic poster, purple like those of the ministry, but emblazoned with flashing yellow letters: why are you worrying about Tom_Riddle? you should be worrying about u-no-poo – the constipation sensation that’s gripping the nation! Harry_Potter started to laugh. he heard a weak sort of moan beside him and looked round to see Molly_Weasley gazing, dumbfounded, at the poster. her lips moved, silently mouthing the name, ‘u-no-poo.’ ‘they’ll be murdered in their beds!’ she whispered. ‘no they won’t!’ said Ronald_Weasley who like Harry_Potter was laughing. ‘this is brilliant!’ and he and Harry_Potter led the way into the shop. it was packed with customers; Harry_Potter could not get near the shelves. he stared around, looking up at the boxes piled to the ceiling: here were the skiving snackboxes that the twins had perfected during their last, unfinished year at hogwarts; Harry_Potter noticed that the nosebleed nougat was most popular, with only one battered box left on the shelf. there were bins full of trick wands, the cheapest merely turning into rubber chickens or pairs of pants when waved; the most expensive beating the unwary user around the head and neck; boxes of quills, which   came in self-inking, spell-checking and smart-answer varieties. a space cleared in the crowd and Harry_Potter pushed his way towards the counter, where a gaggle of delighted ten-year-olds was watching a tiny little wooden man slowly ascending the steps to a real set of gallows, both perched on a box that read: reusable hangman – spell it or he’ll swing! ‘“patented daydream charms …”’ Hermione_Granger had managed to squeeze through to a large display near the counter and was reading the information on the back of a box bearing a highly coloured picture of a handsome youth and a swooning girl who were standing on the deck of a pirate ship. ‘“one simple incantation and you will enter a top-quality, highly realistic thirty-minute daydream, easy to fit into the average school lesson and virtually undetectable (side-effects include vacant expression and minor drooling). not for sale to under-sixteens.” you know,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking up at Harry_Potter, ‘that really is extraordinary magic!’ ‘for that, Hermione_Granger,’ said a voice behind them, ‘you can have one for free.’ a beaming Fred_Weasley stood before them, wearing a set of magenta robes that clashed magnificently with his flaming hair. ‘how are you, Harry_Potter?’ they shook hands. ‘and what’s happened to your eye, Hermione_Granger?’ ‘your punching telescope,’ she said ruefully. ‘oh, blimey, i forgot about those,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘here –’ he pulled a tub out of his pocket and handed it to her; she unscrewed it gingerly to reveal a thick yellow paste. ‘just dab it on, that bruise’ll be gone within the hour,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘we had to find a decent bruise-remover, we’re testing most of our products on ourselves.’ Hermione_Granger looked nervous. ‘it is safe, isn’t it?’ ‘course it is,’ said Fred_Weasley bracingly. ‘come on, Harry_Potter, i’ll give you a tour.’ Harry_Potter left Hermione_Granger dabbing her black eye with paste and followed Fred_Weasley towards the back of the shop, where he saw a stand of card and rope tricks. ‘muggle magic tricks!’ said Fred_Weasley happily, pointing them out. ‘for freaks like dad, you know, who love muggle stuff. it’s not a big earner, but we do fairly steady business, they’re great novelties … oh, here’s George_Weasley …’ Fred_Weasley’s twin shook Harry_Potter’s hand energetically. ‘giving him the tour? come through to the back, Harry_Potter, that’s where we’re making the real money – pocket anything, you, and you’ll pay in more than galleons!’ he added warningly to a small boy who hastily whipped his hand out of the tub labelled: edible dark marks – they’ll make anyone sick! George_Weasley pushed back a curtain beside the muggle tricks and Harry_Potter saw a darker, less crowded room. the packaging on the products lining these shelves was more subdued. ‘we’ve just developed this more serious line,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘funny how it happened …’ ‘you wouldn’t believe how many people, even people who work at the ministry, can’t do a decent shield charm,’ said George_Weasley. ‘course, they didn’t have you teaching them, Harry_Potter.’ ‘that’s right … well, we thought shield hats were a bit of a laugh. you know, challenge your mate to jinx you while wearing it and watch his face when the jinx just bounces off. but the ministry bought five hundred for all its support staff! and we’re still getting massive orders!’ ‘so we’ve expanded into a range of shield cloaks, shield gloves …’ ‘… i mean, they wouldn’t help much against the unforgivable curses, but for minor to moderate hexes or jinxes …’ ‘and then we thought we’d get into the whole area of defence against the dark arts, because it’s such a money-spinner,’ continued George_Weasley enthusiastically. ‘this is cool. look, instant darkness powder, we’re importing it from peru. handy if you want to make a quick escape.’ ‘and our decoy detonators are just walking off the shelves, look,’ said Fred_Weasley, pointing at a number of weird-looking black hooter-type objects that were indeed attempting to scurry out of sight. ‘you just drop one surreptitiously and it’ll run off and make a nice loud noise out of sight, giving you a diversion if you need one.’ ‘handy,’ said Harry_Potter, impressed. ‘here,’ said George_Weasley, catching a couple and throwing them to Harry_Potter. a young witch with short blonde hair poked her head round the curtain; Harry_Potter saw that she too was wearing magenta staff robes. ‘there’s a customer out here looking for a joke cauldron, Arthur_Weasley and Arthur_Weasley,’ she said. Harry_Potter found it very odd to hear Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley called ‘Arthur_Weasley’, but they took it in their stride. ‘right you are, verity, i’m coming,’ said George_Weasley promptly. ‘Harry_Potter, you help yourself to anything you want, all right? no charge.’ ‘i can’t do that!’ said Harry_Potter, who had already pulled out his money-bag to pay for the decoy detonators. ‘you don’t pay here,’ said Fred_Weasley firmly, waving away Harry_Potter’s gold. ‘but –’ ‘you gave us our start-up loan, we haven’t forgotten,’ said George_Weasley sternly. ‘take whatever you like, and just remember to tell people where you got it, if they ask.’ George_Weasley swept off through the curtain to help with the customers and Fred_Weasley led Harry_Potter back into the main part of the shop to find Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley still poring over the patented daydream charms. ‘haven’t you girls found our special wonderwitch products yet?’ asked Fred_Weasley. ‘follow me, ladies …’ near the window was an array of violently pink products around which a cluster of excited girls was giggling enthusiastically. Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley both hung back, looking wary. ‘there you go,’ said Fred_Weasley proudly. ‘best range of love potions you’ll find anywhere.’ Ginevra_Weasley raised an eyebrow sceptically. ‘do they work?’ ‘certainly they work, for up to twenty-four hours at a time depending on the weight of the boy in question –’ ‘– and the attractiveness of the girl,’ said George_Weasley, reappearing suddenly at their side. ‘but we’re not selling them to our sister,’ he added, becoming suddenly stern, ‘not when she’s already got about five boys on the go from what we’ve –’ ‘whatever you’ve heard from Ronald_Weasley is a big fat lie,’ said Ginevra_Weasley calmly, leaning forwards to take a small pink pot off the shelf. ‘what’s this?’ ‘guaranteed ten-second pimple vanisher,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘excellent on everything from boils to blackheads, but don’t change the subject. are you or are you not currently going out with a boy called Dean_Thomas?’ ‘yes, i am,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘and last time i looked, he was definitely one boy, not five. what are those?’ she was pointing at a number of round balls of fluff in shades of pink and purple, all rolling around the bottom of a cage and emitting high-pitched squeaks. ‘pygmy puffs,’ said George_Weasley. ‘miniature puffskeins, we can’t breed them fast enough. so what about Michael_Corner?’ ‘i dumped him, he was a bad loser,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, putting a finger through the bars of the cage and watching the pygmy puffs crowd around it. ‘they’re really cute!’ ‘they’re fairly cuddly, yes,’ conceded Fred_Weasley. ‘but you’re moving through boyfriends a bit fast, aren’t you?’ Ginevra_Weasley turned to look at him, her hands on her hips. there was such a Molly_Weasley-ish glare on her face that Harry_Potter was surprised Fred_Weasley didn’t recoil. ‘it’s none of your business. and i’ll thank you,’ she added angrily to Ronald_Weasley who had just appeared at George_Weasley’s elbow, laden with merchandise, ‘not to tell tales about me to these two!’ ‘that’s three galleons, nine sickles and a knut,’ said Fred_Weasley, examining the many boxes in ron’s arms. ‘cough up.’ ‘i’m your brother!’ ‘and that’s our stuff you’re Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoning. three galleons, nine sickles. i’ll knock off the knut.’ ‘but i haven’t got three galleons, nine sickles!’ ‘you’d better put it all back then, and mind you put it on the right shelves.’ Ronald_Weasley dropped several boxes, swore and made a rude hand gesture at Fred_Weasley that was unfortunately spotted by Molly_Weasley, who had chosen that moment to appear. ‘if i see you do that again i’ll jinx your fingers together,’ she said sharply. ‘mum, can i have a pygmy puff?’ said Ginevra_Weasley at once. ‘a what?’ said Molly_Weasley warily. ‘look, they’re so sweet …’ Molly_Weasley moved aside to look at the pygmy puffs, and Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger momentarily had an unimpeded view out of the window. Draco_Malfoy was hurrying up the street alone. as he passed weasleys’ wizard wheezes, he glanced over his shoulder. seconds later, he moved beyond the scope of the window and they lost sight of him. ‘wonder where his mummy is?’ said Harry_Potter, frowning. ‘given her the slip by the looks of it,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘why, though?’ said Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter said nothing; he was thinking too hard. Narcissa_Malfoy would not have let her precious son out of her sight willingly; malfoy must have made a real effort to free himself from her clutches. Harry_Potter, knowing and loathing malfoy, was sure the reason could not be innocent. he glanced around. Molly_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley were bending over the pygmy puffs. Arthur_Weasley was delightedly examining a pack of muggle marked playing cards. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were both helping customers. on the other side of the glass, Rubeus_Hagrid was standing with his back to them, looking up and down the street. ‘get under here, quick,’ said Harry_Potter, pulling his invisibility cloak out of his bag. ‘oh – i don’t know, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking uncertainly towards Molly_Weasley. ‘come on!’ said Ronald_Weasley she hesitated for a second longer, then ducked under the cloak with Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley nobody noticed them vanish; they were all too interested in Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s products. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger squeezed their way out of the door as quickly as they could, but by the time they gained the street, malfoy had disappeared just as successfully as they had. ‘he was going in that direction,’ murmured Harry_Potter as quietly as possible, so that the humming Rubeus_Hagrid would not hear them. ‘c’mon.’ they scurried along, peering left and right, through shop windows and doors, until Hermione_Granger pointed ahead. ‘that’s him, isn’t it?’ she whispered. ‘turning left?’ ‘big surprise,’ whispered Ronald_Weasley for malfoy had glanced round, then slid into knockturn alley and out of sight. ‘quick, or we’ll lose him,’ said Harry_Potter, speeding up. ‘our feet’ll be seen!’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously, as the cloak flapped a little around their ankles; it was much more difficult hiding all three of them under it nowadays. ‘it doesn’t matter,’ said Harry_Potter impatiently, ‘just hurry!’ but knockturn alley, the side street devoted to the dark arts, looked completely deserted. they peered into windows as they passed, but none of the shops seemed to have any customers at all. Harry_Potter supposed it was a bit of a giveaway in these dangerous and suspicious times to buy dark artefacts – or at least, to be seen buying them. Hermione_Granger gave his arm a hard pinch. ‘ouch!’ ‘shh! look! he’s in there!’ she breathed in Harry_Potter’s ear. they had drawn level with the only shop in knockturn alley that Harry_Potter had ever visited: Borgin and burkes, which sold a wide variety of sinister objects. there in the midst of the cases full of skulls and old bottles stood Draco_Malfoy with his back to them, just visible beyond the very same large black cabinet in which Harry_Potter had once hidden to avoid malfoy and his father. judging by the movements of malfoy’s hands he was talking animatedly. the proprietor of the shop, mr Borgin, an oily-haired, stooping man, stood facing malfoy. he was wearing a curious expression of mingled resentment and fear. ‘if only we could hear what they’re saying!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘we can!’ said Ronald_Weasley excitedly. ‘hang on – damn –’ he dropped a couple more of the boxes he was still clutching as he fumbled with the largest. ‘extendable ears, look!’ ‘fantastic!’ said Hermione_Granger, as Ronald_Weasley unravelled the long, flesh-coloured strings and began to feed them towards the bottom of the door. ‘oh, i Hope_Howell the door isn’t imperturbable –’ ‘no!’ said Ronald_Weasley gleefully. ‘listen!’ they put their heads together and listened intently to the ends of the strings, through which malfoy’s voice could be heard loud and clear, as though a radio had been turned on. ‘… you know how to fix it?’ ‘possibly,’ said Borgin, in a tone that suggested he was unwilling to commit himself. ‘i’ll need to see it, though. why don’t you bring it into the shop?’ ‘i can’t,’ said malfoy. ‘it’s got to stay put. i just need you to tell me how to do it.’ Harry_Potter saw Borgin lick his lips nervously. ‘well, without seeing it, i must say it will be a very difficult job, perhaps impossible. i couldn’t guarantee anything.’ ‘no?’ said malfoy and Harry_Potter knew, just by his tone, that malfoy was sneering. ‘perhaps this will make you more confident.’ he moved towards Borgin and was blocked from view by the cabinet. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger shuffled sideways to try and keep him in sight, but all they could see was Borgin, looking very frightened. ‘tell anyone,’ said malfoy, ‘and there will be retribution. you know Fenrir_Greyback? he’s a family friend, he’ll be dropping in from time to time to make sure you’re giving the problem your full attention.’ ‘there will be no need for –’ ‘i’ll decide that,’ said malfoy. ‘well, i’d better be off. and don’t forget to keep that one safe, i’ll need it.’ ‘perhaps you’d like to take it now?’ ‘no, of course i wouldn’t, you stupid little man, how would i look carrying that down the street? just don’t sell it.’ ‘of course not … sir.’ Borgin made a bow as deep as the one Harry_Potter had once seen him give Lucius_Malfoy. ‘not a word to anyone, Borgin, and that includes my mother, understand?’ ‘naturally, naturally,’ murmured Borgin, bowing again. next moment, the bell over the door tinkled loudly as malfoy stalked out of the shop looking very pleased with himself. he passed so close to Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger that they felt the cloak flutter around their knees again. inside the shop, Borgin remained frozen; his unctuous smile had vanished; he looked worried. ‘what was that about?’ whispered Ronald_Weasley reeling in the extendable ears. ‘dunno,’ said Harry_Potter, thinking hard. ‘he wants something mended … and he wants to reserve something in there … could you see what he pointed at when he said “that one”?’ ‘no, he was behind that cabinet –’ ‘you two stay here,’ whispered Hermione_Granger. ‘what are you –?’ but Hermione_Granger had already ducked out from under the cloak. she checked her hair in the reflection in the glass, then marched into the shop, setting the bell tinkling again. Ronald_Weasley hastily fed the extendable ears back under the door and passed one of the strings to Harry_Potter. ‘hello, horrible morning, isn’t it?’ Hermione_Granger said brightly to Borgin, who did not answer, but cast her a suspicious look. humming cheerily, Hermione_Granger strolled through the jumble of objects on display. ‘is this necklace for sale?’ she asked, pausing beside a glass-fronted case. ‘if you’ve got one and a half thousand galleons,’ said Borgin coldly. ‘oh – er – no, i haven’t got quite that much,’ said Hermione_Granger, walking on. ‘and … what about this lovely – um – skull?’ ‘sixteen galleons.’ ‘so it’s for sale, then? it isn’t being … kept for anyone?’ Borgin squinted at her. Harry_Potter had the nasty feeling he knew exactly what Hermione_Granger was up to. apparently Hermione_Granger felt she had been rumbled, too, because she suddenly threw caution to the winds. ‘the thing is, that – er – boy who was in here just now, Draco_Malfoy, well, he’s a friend of mine, and i want to get him a birthday present, but if he’s already reserved anything i obviously don’t want to get him the same thing, so … um …’ it was a pretty lame story in Harry_Potter’s opinion, and apparently Borgin thought so too. ‘out,’ he said sharply. ‘get out!’ Hermione_Granger did not wait to be asked twice, but hurried to the door with Borgin at her heels. as the bell tinkled again, Borgin slammed the door behind her and put up the ‘closed’ sign. ‘ah well,’ said Ronald_Weasley throwing the cloak back over Hermione_Granger. ‘worth a try, but you were a bit obvious –’ ‘well, next time you can show me how it’s done, master of mystery!’ she snapped. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger bickered all the way back to weasleys’ wizard wheezes, where they were forced to stop so that they could dodge undetected around a very anxious-looking Molly_Weasley and Rubeus_Hagrid, who had clearly noticed their absence. once in the shop, Harry_Potter whipped off the invisibility cloak, hid it in his bag, and joined in with the other two when they insisted, in answer to Molly_Weasley’s accusations, that they had been in the back room all along, and that she could not have looked properly. 