— chapter twenty-two — after the burial patches of bright blue sky were beginning to appear over the castle turrets, but these signs of approaching summer did not lift Harry_Potter’s mood. he had been thwarted, both in his attempts to find out what malfoy was doing, and in his efforts to start a conversation with slughorn that might lead, somehow, to slughorn handing over the memory he had apparently suppressed for decades. ‘for the last time, just forget about malfoy,’ Hermione_Granger told Harry_Potter firmly. they were sitting with Ronald_Weasley in a sunny corner of the courtyard after lunch. Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley were both clutching a ministry of magic leaflet: common apparition mistakes and how to avoid them, for they were taking their tests that very afternoon, but by and large the leaflets had not proved soothing to the nerves. Ronald_Weasley gave a start and tried to hide behind Hermione_Granger as a girl came round the corner. ‘it isn’t Lavender_Brown,’ said Hermione_Granger wearily. ‘oh, good,’ said Ronald_Weasley relaxing. ‘Harry_Potter?’ said the girl. ‘i was asked to give you this.’ ‘thanks …’ Harry_Potter’s heart sank as he took the small scroll of parchment. once the girl was out of earshot he said, ‘Albus_Dumbledore said we wouldn’t be having any more lessons until i got the memory!’ ‘maybe he wants to check on how you’re doing?’ suggested Hermione_Granger, as Harry_Potter unrolled the parchment; but rather than finding Albus_Dumbledore’s long, narrow, slanting writing he saw an untidy sprawl, very difficult to read due to the presence of large blotches on the parchment where the ink had run. dear Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, Aragog died last night. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley you met him, and you know how special he was. Hermione_Granger, i know you’d have liked him. it would mean a lot to me if you’d nip down for the burial later this evening. i’m planning on doing it round dusk, that was his favourite time of day. i     know you’re not supposed to be out that late, but you can use the cloak. wouldn’t ask but i can’t face it alone. Rubeus_Hagrid ‘look at this,’ said Harry_Potter, handing the note to Hermione_Granger. ‘oh, for heaven’s sake,’ she said, scanning it quickly and passing it to Ronald_Weasley who read it through looking increasingly incredulous. ‘he’s mental!’ he said furiously. ‘that thing told its mates to eat Harry_Potter and me! told them to help themselves! and now Rubeus_Hagrid expects us to go down there and cry over its horrible hairy body!’ ‘it’s not just that,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘he’s asking us to leave the castle at night, and he knows security’s a million times tighter and how much trouble we’d be in if we were caught.’ ‘we’ve been down to see him by night before,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yes, but for something like this?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘we’ve risked a lot to help Rubeus_Hagrid out, but after all – Aragog’s dead. if it were a question of saving him –’ ‘– i’d want to go even less,’ said Ronald_Weasley firmly. ‘you didn’t meet him, Hermione_Granger. believe me, being dead will have improved him a lot.’ Harry_Potter took the note back and stared down at the inky blotches all over it. tears had clearly fallen thick and fast upon the parchment … ‘Harry_Potter, you can’t be thinking of going,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it’s such a pointless thing to get detention for.’ Harry_Potter sighed. ‘yeah, i know,’ he said. ‘i s’pose Rubeus_Hagrid’ll have to bury Aragog without us.’ ‘yes, he will,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking relieved. ‘look, potions will be almost empty this afternoon, with us all off doing our tests … try and soften slughorn up a bit then!’ ‘fifty-seventh time lucky, you think?’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘lucky,’ said Ronald_Weasley suddenly. ‘Harry_Potter, that’s it – get lucky!’ ‘what d’you mean?’ ‘use your lucky potion!’ ‘ron, that’s – that’s it!’ said Hermione_Granger, sounding stunned. ‘of course! why didn’t i think of it?’ Harry_Potter stared at them both. ‘felix felicis?’ he said. ‘i dunno … i was sort of saving it …’  ‘what for?’ demanded Ronald_Weasley incredulously. ‘what on earth is more important than this memory, Harry_Potter?’ asked Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter did not answer. the thought of that little golden bottle had hovered on the edges of his imagination for some time; vague and unformulated plans that involved Ginevra_Weasley splitting up with Dean_Thomas, and Ronald_Weasley somehow being happy to see her with a new boyfriend, had been fermenting in the depths of his brain, unacknowledged except during dreams or the twilight time between sleeping and waking … ‘Harry_Potter? are you still with us?’ asked Hermione_Granger. ‘wha—? yeah, of course,’ he said, pulling himself together. ‘well … ok. if i can’t get slughorn to talk this afternoon, i’ll take some felix and have another go this evening.’ ‘that’s decided, then,’ said Hermione_Granger briskly, getting to her feet and performing a graceful pirouette. ‘destination … determination … deliberation …’ she murmured. ‘oh, stop that,’ Ronald_Weasley begged her, ‘i feel sick enough as it is – quick, hide me!’ ‘it isn’t Lavender_Brown!’ said Hermione_Granger impatiently, as another couple of girls appeared in the courtyard and Ronald_Weasley dived behind her. ‘cool,’ said Ronald_Weasley peering over Hermione_Granger’s shoulder to check. ‘blimey, they don’t look happy, do they?’ ‘they’re the montgomery sisters and of course they don’t look happy, didn’t you hear what happened to their little brother?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i’m losing track of what’s happening to everyone’s relatives, to be honest,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘well, their brother was attacked by a werewolf. the rumour is that their mother refused to help the death eaters. anyway, the boy was only five and he died in st mungo’s, they couldn’t save him.’ ‘he died?’ repeated Harry_Potter, shocked. ‘but surely werewolves don’t kill, they just turn you into one of them?’ ‘they sometimes kill,’ said Ronald_Weasley who looked unusually grave now. ‘i’ve heard of it happening when the werewolf gets carried away.’ ‘what was the werewolf’s name?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘well, the rumour is that it was that Fenrir_Greyback,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i knew it – the maniac who likes attacking kids, the one lupin told me about!’ said Harry_Potter angrily. Hermione_Granger looked at him bleakly. ‘Harry_Potter, you’ve got to get that memory,’ she said. ‘it’s all about stopping voldemort, isn’t it? these dreadful things that are happening are all down to him …’ the bell rang overhead in the castle and both Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley jumped to their feet, looking terrified. ‘you’ll do fine,’ Harry_Potter told them both, as they headed towards the entrance hall to meet the rest of the people taking their apparition test. ‘good luck.’ ‘and you too!’ said Hermione_Granger with a significant look, as Harry_Potter headed off to the Mundungus_Fletchereons. there were only three of them in potions that afternoon: Harry_Potter, Ernest_Prangand Draco_Malfoy. ‘all too young to apparate just yet?’ said slughorn genially. ‘not turned seventeen yet?’ they shook their heads. ‘ah well,’ said slughorn cheerily, ‘as we’re so few, we’ll do something fun. i want you all to brew me up something amusing!’ ‘that sounds good, sir,’ said Ernest_Prangsycophantically, rubbing his hands together. malfoy, on the other hand, did not crack a smile. ‘what do you mean, something “amusing”?’ he said irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘oh, surprise me,’ said slughorn airily. malfoy opened his copy of advanced potion-making with a sulky expression. it could not have been plainer that he thought this lesson was a waste of time. undoubtedly, Harry_Potter thought, watching him over the top of his own book, malfoy was begrudging the time he could otherwise be spending in the room of requirement. was it his imagination, or did malfoy, like Nymphadora_Tonks, look thinner? certainly he looked paler; his skin still had that greyish tinge, probably because he so rarely saw daylight these days. but there was no air of smugness, or excitement, or superiority; none of the swagger that he had had on the hogwarts express, when he had boasted openly of the mission he had been given by voldemort … there could be only one conclusion, in Harry_Potter’s opinion: the mission, whatever it was, was going badly. cheered by this thought, Harry_Potter skimmed through his copy of advanced potion-making and found a heavily corrected Severus_Snape’s version of an elixir to induce euphoria, which seemed not only to meet slughorn’s instructions, but which might (Harry_Potter’s heart leapt as the thought struck him) put slughorn into such a good mood that he would be prepared to hand over that memory if Harry_Potter could persuade him to taste some … ‘well, now, this looks absolutely wonderful,’ said slughorn clapping his hands together an hour and a half later, as he stared down into the sunshine- yellow contents of Harry_Potter’s cauldron. ‘euphoria, i take it? and what’s that i smell? mmmm … you’ve added just a sprig of peppermint, haven’t you? unorthodox, but what a stroke of inspiration, Harry_Potter. of course, that would tend to counterbalance the occasional side-effects of excessive singing and nose-tweaking … i really don’t know where you get these brainwaves, my boy … unless –’ Harry_Potter pushed the Severus_Snape’s book deeper into his bag with his foot. ‘– it’s just your mother’s genes coming out in you!’ ‘oh … yeah, maybe,’ said Harry_Potter, relieved. Ernest_Prangwas looking rather grumpy; determined to outshine Harry_Potter for once, he had most rashly invented his own potion, which had curdled and formed a kind of purple dumpling at the bottom of his cauldron. malfoy was already packing up, sour-faced; slughorn had pronounced his hiccoughing solution merely ‘passable’. the bell rang and both Ernest_Prangand malfoy left at once. ‘sir,’ Harry_Potter began, but slughorn immediately glanced over his shoulder; when he saw that the room was empty but for himself and Harry_Potter he hurried away as fast as he could. ‘professor – professor, don’t you want to taste my po—?’ called Harry_Potter desperately. but slughorn had gone. disappointed, Harry_Potter emptied the cauldron, packed up his things, left the Mundungus_Fletchereon and walked slowly back upstairs to the common room. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger returned in the late afternoon. ‘Harry_Potter!’ cried Hermione_Granger as she climbed through the portrait hole. ‘Harry_Potter, i passed!’ ‘well done!’ he said. ‘and Ronald_Weasley’ ‘he – he just failed,’ whispered Hermione_Granger, as Ronald_Weasley came slouching into the room looking most morose. ‘it was really unlucky, a tiny thing, the examiner just spotted that he’d left half an eyebrow behind … how did it go with slughorn?’ ‘no joy,’ said Harry_Potter, as Ronald_Weasley joined them. ‘bad luck, mate, but you’ll pass next time – we can take it together.’ ‘yeah, i s’pose,’ said Ronald_Weasley grumpily. ‘but half an eyebrow! like that matters!’ ‘i know,’ said Hermione_Granger soothingly, ‘it does seem really harsh …’ they spent most of their dinner roundly abusing the apparition examiner and Ronald_Weasley looked fractionally more cheerful by the time they set off back to the common room, now discussing the continuing problem of slughorn and the memory. ‘so, Harry_Potter – you going to use the felix felicis or what?’ Ronald_Weasley demanded. ‘yeah, i s’pose i’d better,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i don’t reckon i’ll need all of it, not twelve hours’ worth, it can’t take all night … i’ll just take a mouthful. two or three hours should do it.’ ‘it’s a great feeling when you take it,’ said Ronald_Weasley reminiscently. ‘like you can’t do anything wrong.’ ‘what are you talking about?’ said Hermione_Granger, laughing. ‘you’ve never taken any!’ ‘yeah, but i thought i had, didn’t i?’ said Ronald_Weasley as though explaining the obvious. ‘same difference really …’ as they had only just seen slughorn enter the great hall and knew that he liked to take time over meals, they lingered for a while in the common room, the plan being that Harry_Potter should go to slughorn’s office once the teacher had had time to get back there. when the sun had sunk to the level of the treetops in the forbidden forest they decided the moment had come, and, after checking carefully that Neville_Longbottom, Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan were all in the common room, sneaked up to the boys’ dormitory. Harry_Potter took out the rolled-up socks at the bottom of his trunk and extracted the tiny, gleaming bottle. ‘well, here goes,’ said Harry_Potter, and he raised the little bottle and took a carefully measured gulp. ‘what does it feel like?’ whispered Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter did not answer for a moment. then, slowly but surely, an exhilarating sense of infinite opportunity stole through him; he felt as though he could have done anything, anything at all … and getting the memory from slughorn seemed suddenly not only possible, but positively easy … he got to his feet smiling, brimful of confidence. ‘excellent,’ he said. ‘really excellent. right … i’m going down to Rubeus_Hagrid’s.’ ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger together, looking aghast. ‘no, Harry_Potter – you’ve got to go and see slughorn, remember?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter confidently. ‘i’m going to Rubeus_Hagrid’s, i’ve got a good feeling about going to Rubeus_Hagrid’s.’ ‘you’ve got a good feeling about burying a giant spider?’ asked Ronald_Weasley looking stunned. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, pulling his invisibility cloak out of his bag. ‘i feel like it’s the place to be tonight, you know what i mean?’ ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger together, both looking positively alarmed now. ‘this is felix felicis, i suppose?’ said Hermione_Granger anxiously, holding up the bottle to the light. ‘you haven’t got another little bottle full of – i don’t know –’ ‘essence of insanity?’ suggested Ronald_Weasley as Harry_Potter swung his cloak over his shoulders. Harry_Potter laughed and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked even more alarmed. ‘trust me,’ he said. ‘i know what i’m doing … or at least …’ he strolled confidently to the door, ‘felix does.’ he pulled the invisibility cloak over his head and set off down the stairs, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger hurrying along behind him. at the foot of the stairs Harry_Potter slid through the open door. ‘what were you doing up there with her?’ shrieked Lavender_Brown, staring right through Harry_Potter at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger emerging together from the boys’ dormitories. Harry_Potter heard Ronald_Weasley spluttering behind him as he darted across the room away from them. getting through the portrait hole was simple; as he approached it, Ginevra_Weasley and Dean_Thomas came through it and Harry_Potter was able to slip between them. as he did so, he brushed accidentally against Ginevra_Weasley. ‘don’t push me, please, Dean_Thomas,’ she said, sounding annoyed. ‘you’re always doing that, i can get through perfectly well on my own …’ the portrait swung closed behind Harry_Potter, but not before he had heard Dean_Thomas make an angry retort … his feeling of elation increasing, Harry_Potter strode off through the castle. he did not have to creep along, for he met nobody on his way, but this did not surprise him in the slightest: this evening, he was the luckiest person at hogwarts. why he knew that going to Rubeus_Hagrid’s was the right thing to do, he had no idea. it was as though the potion was illuminating a few steps of the path at a time: he could not see the final destination, he could not see where slughorn came in, but he knew that he was going the right way to get that memory. when he reached the entrance hall he saw that filch had forgotten to lock the front door. beaming, Harry_Potter threw it open and breathed in the smell of clean air and grass for a moment before walking down the steps into the dusk. it was when he reached the bottom step that it occurred to him how very pleasant it would be to pass the vegetable patch on his walk to Rubeus_Hagrid’s. it was not strictly on the way, but it seemed clear to Harry_Potter that this was a whim on which he should act, so he directed his feet immediately towards the vegetable patch where he was pleased, but not altogether surprised, to find professor slughorn in conversation with professor sprout. Harry_Potter lurked behind a low stone wall, feeling at peace with the world and listening to their conversation. ‘… i do thank you for taking the time, Pomona_Sprout,’ slughorn was saying courteously. ‘most authorities agree that they are at their most efficacious if picked at twilight.’ ‘oh, i quite agree,’ said professor sprout warmly. ‘that enough for you?’ ‘plenty, plenty,’ said slughorn, who, Harry_Potter saw, was carrying an armful of leafy plants. ‘this should allow for a few leaves for each of my third-years, and some to spare if anybody overstews them … well, good evening to you, and many thanks again!’ professor sprout headed off into the gathering darkness in the direction of her greenhouses and slughorn directed his steps to the spot where Harry_Potter stood, invisible. seized with an immediate desire to reveal himself, Harry_Potter pulled off the cloak with a flourish. ‘good evening, professor.’ ‘merlin’s beard, Harry_Potter, you made me jump,’ said slughorn, stopping dead in his tracks and looking wary. ‘how did you get out of the castle?’ ‘i think filch must’ve forgotten to lock the doors,’ said Harry_Potter cheerfully, and was delighted to see slughorn scowl. ‘i’ll be reporting that man, he’s more concerned about litter than proper security if you ask me … but why are you out here, Harry_Potter?’ ‘well, sir, it’s Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter, who knew that the right thing to do just now was to tell the truth. ‘he’s pretty upset … but you won’t tell anyone, professor? i don’t want trouble for him …’ slughorn’s curiosity was evidently aroused. ‘well, i can’t promise that,’ he said gruffly. ‘but i know that Albus_Dumbledore trusts Rubeus_Hagrid to the hilt, so i’m sure he can’t be up to anything very dreadful …’ ‘well, it’s this giant spider, he’s had it for years … it lived in the forest … it could talk and everything –’ ‘i heard rumours there were acromantula in the forest,’ said slughorn softly, looking over at the mass of black trees. ‘it’s true, then?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but this one, Aragog, the first one Rubeus_Hagrid ever got, it died last night. he’s devastated. he wants company while he buries it and i said i’d go.’ ‘touching, touching,’ said slughorn absent-mindedly, his large droopy eyes fixed upon the distant lights of Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. ‘but acromantula venom is very valuable … if the beast has only just died it might not yet have dried out … of course, i wouldn’t want to do anything insensitive if Rubeus_Hagrid is upset … but if there were any way to procure some … i mean, it’s almost impossible to get venom from an acromantula while it’s alive …’ slughorn seemed to be talking more to himself than Harry_Potter now. ‘… seems an awful waste not to collect it … might get a hundred galleons a pint … to be Frank_Longbottom, my salary is not large …’ and now Harry_Potter saw clearly what was to be done. ‘well,’ he said, with a most convincing hesitancy, ‘well, if you wanted to come, professor, Rubeus_Hagrid would probably be really pleased … give Aragog a better send-off, you know …’ ‘yes, of course,’ said slughorn, his eyes now gleaming with enthusiasm. ‘i tell you what, Harry_Potter, i’ll meet you down there with a bottle or two … we’ll drink the poor beast’s – well – not health – but we’ll send it off in style, anyway, once it’s buried. and i’ll change my tie, this one is a little exuberant for the occasion …’ he bustled back into the castle, and Harry_Potter sped off to Rubeus_Hagrid’s, delighted with himself. ‘yeh came,’ croaked Rubeus_Hagrid, when he opened the door and saw Harry_Potter emerging from the invisibility cloak in front of him. ‘yeah – Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger couldn’t, though,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘they’re really sorry.’ ‘don’ – don’ matter … he’d’ve bin touched yeh’re here, though, Harry_Potter …’ Rubeus_Hagrid gave a great sob. he had made himself a black armband out of what looked like a rag dipped in boot polish and his eyes were puffy, red and swollen. Harry_Potter patted him consolingly on the elbow, which was the highest point of Rubeus_Hagrid he could easily reach. ‘where are we burying him?’ he asked. ‘the forest?’ ‘blimey, no,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, wiping his streaming eyes on the bottom of his shirt. ‘the other spiders won’ let me anywhere near their webs now Aragog’s gone. turns out it was on’y on his orders they didn’ eat me! can yeh believe that, Harry_Potter?’ the honest answer was ‘yes’; Harry_Potter recalled with painful ease the scene when he and Ronald_Weasley had come face to face with the acromantula: they had been quite clear that Aragog was the only thing that stopped them eating Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘never bin an area o’ the forest i couldn’ go before!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, shaking his head. ‘it wasn’ easy, gettin’ Aragog’s body out o’ there, i can tell yeh – they usually eat their dead, see … but i wanted ter give ’im a nice burial … a proper send-off …’ he broke into sobs again and Harry_Potter resumed the patting of his elbow, saying as he did so (for the potion seemed to indicate that it was the right thing to do), ‘professor slughorn met me coming down here, Rubeus_Hagrid.’ ‘not in trouble, are yeh?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking up, alarmed. ‘yeh shouldn’ be outta the castle in the evenin’, i know it, it’s my fault –’ ‘no, no, when he heard what i was doing he said he’d like to come and pay his last respects to Aragog too,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s gone to change into something more suitable, i think … and he said he’d bring some bottles so we can drink to Aragog’s memory …’ ‘did he?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking both astonished and touched. ‘tha’s – tha’s righ’ nice of him, tha’ is, an’ not turnin’ you in, either. i’ve never really had a lot ter do with horace slughorn before … comin’ ter see old Aragog off, though, eh? well … he’d’ve liked that, Aragog would …’ Harry_Potter thought privately that what Aragog would have liked most about slughorn was the ample amount of edible flesh he provided, but he merely moved to the rear window of Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut where he saw the rather horrible sight of the enormous dead spider lying on its back outside, its legs curled and tangled. ‘are we going to bury him here, Rubeus_Hagrid, in your garden?’ ‘jus’ beyond the pumpkin patch, i thought,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid in a choked voice. ‘i’ve already dug the – you know – grave. jus’ thought we’d say a few nice things over him – happy memories, yeh know –’ his voice quivered and broke. there was a knock on the door and he turned to answer it, blowing his nose on his great spotted handkerchief as he did so. slughorn hurried over the threshold, several bottles in his arms, and wearing a sombre black cravat. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid,’ he said, in a deep, grave voice. ‘so very sorry to hear of your loss.’ ‘tha’s very nice of yeh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘thanks a lot. an’ thanks fer not givin’ Harry_Potter detention, neither …’ ‘wouldn’t have dreamed of it,’ said slughorn. ‘sad night, sad night … where is the poor creature?’ ‘out here,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid in a shaky voice. ‘shall we – shall we do it, then?’ the three of them stepped out into the back garden. the moon was glistening palely through the trees and its rays mingled with the light spilling from Rubeus_Hagrid’s window to illuminate Aragog’s body lying on the edge of a massive pit, beside a ten-foot-high mound of freshly dug earth. ‘magnificent,’ said slughorn, approaching the spider’s head, where eight milky eyes stared blankly at the sky and two huge, curved Irma_Pincers shone, motionless, in the moonlight. Harry_Potter thought he heard the tinkle of bottles as slughorn bent over the Irma_Pincers, apparently examining the enormous hairy head. ‘it’s not ev’ryone appreciates how beau’iful they are,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid to slughorn’s back, tears leaking from the corners of his crinkled eyes. ‘i didn’ know yeh were int’rested in creatures like Aragog, horace.’ ‘interested? my dear Rubeus_Hagrid, i revere them,’ said slughorn, stepping back from the body. Harry_Potter saw the glint of a bottle disappear beneath his cloak, though Rubeus_Hagrid, mopping his eyes once more, noticed nothing. ‘now … shall we proceed to the burial?’ Rubeus_Hagrid nodded and moved forwards. he heaved the gigantic spider into his arms and, with an enormous grunt, rolled it into the dark pit. it hit the bottom with a rather horrible, crunchy thud. Rubeus_Hagrid started to cry again. ‘of course, it’s difficult for you, who knew him best,’ said slughorn, who, like Harry_Potter, could reach no higher than Rubeus_Hagrid’s elbow, but patted it all the same. ‘why don’t i say a few words?’ he must have got a lot of good-quality venom from Aragog, Harry_Potter thought, for slughorn wore a satisfied smirk as he stepped up to the rim of the pit and said, in a slow, impressive voice, ‘farewell, Aragog, king of arachnids, whose long and faithful friendship those who knew you won’t forget! though your body will decay, your spirit lingers on in the quiet, web-spun places of your forest home. may your many-eyed descendants ever flourish and your human friends find solace for the loss they have sustained.’ ‘tha’ was … tha’ was … beau’iful!’ howled Rubeus_Hagrid and he collapsed on to the compost heap, crying harder than ever. ‘there, there,’ said slughorn, waving his wand so that the huge pile of earth rose up and then fell, with a muffled sort of crash, on to the dead spider, forming a smooth mound. ‘let’s get inside and have a drink. get on his other side, Harry_Potter … that’s it … up you come, Rubeus_Hagrid … well done …’ they deposited Rubeus_Hagrid in a chair at the table. Fang, who had been skulking in his basket during the burial, now came padding softly across to them and put his heavy head into Harry_Potter’s lap as usual. slughorn uncorked one of the bottles of wine he had brought. ‘i have had it all tested for poison,’ he assured Harry_Potter, pouring most of the first bottle into one of Rubeus_Hagrid’s bucket-sized mugs and handing it to Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘had a house-elf taste every bottle after what happened to your poor friend rupert.’ Harry_Potter saw, in his mind’s eye, the expression on Hermione_Granger’s face if she ever heard about this abuse of house-elves, and decided never to mention it to her. ‘one for Harry_Potter …’ said slughorn, dividing a second bottle between two mugs, ‘… and one for me. well,’ he raised his mug high, ‘to Aragog.’ ‘Aragog,’ said Harry_Potter and Rubeus_Hagrid together. both slughorn and Rubeus_Hagrid drank deeply. Harry_Potter, however, with the way ahead illuminated for him by felix felicis, knew that he must not drink, so he merely pretended to take a gulp and then set the mug back on the table before him. ‘i had him from an egg, yeh know,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid morosely. ‘tiny little thing he was when he hatched. ’bout the size of a pekinese.’ ‘sweet,’ said slughorn. ‘used ter keep him in a cupboard up at the school until … well …’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s face darkened and Harry_Potter knew why: Tom_Riddle had contrived to have Rubeus_Hagrid thrown out of school, blamed for opening the chamber of secrets. slughorn, however, did not seem to be listening; he was looking up at the ceiling, from which a number of brass pots hung, and also a long, silky skein of bright white hair. ‘that’s never unicorn hair, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘oh, yeah,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid indifferently. ‘gets pulled out of their tails, they catch it on branches an’ stuff in the forest, yeh know …’ ‘but my dear chap, do you know how much that’s worth?’ ‘i use it fer bindin’ on bandages an’ stuff if a creature gets injured,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, shrugging. ‘it’s dead useful … very strong, see.’ slughorn took another deep draught from his mug, his eyes moving carefully around the cabin now, looking, Harry_Potter knew, for more treasures that he might be able to convert into a plentiful supply of oak-matured mead, crystallised pineapple and velvet smoking Jack_Sloperets. he refilled Rubeus_Hagrid’s mug and his own, and questioned him about the creatures that lived in the forest these days and how Rubeus_Hagrid was able to look after them all. Rubeus_Hagrid, becoming expansive under the influence of the drink and slughorn’s flattering interest, stopped mopping his eyes and entered happily into a long explanation of bowtruckle husbandry. the felix felicis gave Harry_Potter a little nudge at this point and he noticed that the supply of drink that slughorn had brought was running out fast. Harry_Potter had not yet managed to bring off the refilling charm without saying the incantation aloud, but the idea that he might not be able to do it tonight was laughable: indeed, Harry_Potter grinned to himself as, unnoticed by either Rubeus_Hagrid or slughorn (now swapping tales of the illegal trade in dragon eggs), he pointed his wand under the table at the emptying bottles and they immediately began to refill. after an hour or so, Rubeus_Hagrid and slughorn began making extravagant toasts: to hogwarts, to Albus_Dumbledore, to elf-made wine and to – ‘Harry_Potter!’ bellowed Rubeus_Hagrid, slopping some of his fourteenth bucket of wine down his chin as he drained it. ‘yes, indeed,’ cried slughorn a little thickly, ‘parry otter, the chosen boy who – well – something of that sort,’ he mumbled, and drained his mug, too. not long after this, Rubeus_Hagrid became tearful again and pressed the whole unicorn tail upon slughorn, who pocketed it with cries of, ‘to friendship! to generosity! to ten galleons a hair!’ and for a while after that, Rubeus_Hagrid and slughorn were sitting side by side, arms around each other, singing a slow sad song about a dying wizard called odo. ‘aaargh, the good die young,’ muttered Rubeus_Hagrid, slumping low on to the table, a little cross-eyed, while slughorn continued to warble the refrain. ‘me dad was no age ter go … nor were your mum an’ dad, Harry_Potter …’ great fat tears oozed out of the corners of Rubeus_Hagrid’s crinkled eyes again; he grasped Harry_Potter’s arm and shook it. ‘… bes’ wiz and witchard o’ their age i never knew … terrible thing … terrible thing …’ slughorn sang plaintively: ‘and odo the hero, they bore him back home  to the place that he’d known as a lad, they laid him to rest with his hat inside out and his wand snapped in two, which was sad.’ ‘… terrible,’ Rubeus_Hagrid grunted and his great shaggy head rolled sideways on to his arms and he fell asleep, snoring deeply. ‘sorry,’ said slughorn with a hiccough. ‘can’t carry a tune to save my life.’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid wasn’t talking about your singing,’ said Harry_Potter quietly. ‘he was talking about my mum and dad dying.’ ‘oh,’ said slughorn, repressing a large belch. ‘oh, dear. yes, that was – was terrible indeed. terrible … terrible …’ he looked quite at a loss for what to say, and resorted to refilling their mugs. ‘i don’t – don’t suppose you remember it, Harry_Potter?’ he asked awkwardly. ‘no – well, i was only one when they died,’ said Harry_Potter, his eyes on the flame of the candle flickering in Rubeus_Hagrid’s heavy snores. ‘but i’ve found out pretty much what happened since. my dad died first. did you know that?’ ‘i – i didn’t,’ said slughorn in a hushed voice. ‘yeah … voldemort murdered him and then stepped over his body towards my mum,’ said Harry_Potter. slughorn gave a great shudder, but he did not seem able to tear his horrified gaze away from Harry_Potter’s face. ‘he told her to get out of the way,’ said Harry_Potter remorselessly. ‘he told me she needn’t have died. he only wanted me. she could have run.’ ‘oh dear,’ breathed slughorn. ‘she could have … she needn’t … that’s awful …’ ‘it is, isn’t it?’ said Harry_Potter, in a voice barely more than a whisper. ‘but she didn’t move. dad was already dead, but she didn’t want me to go too. she tried to plead with voldemort … but he just laughed …’ ‘that’s enough!’ said slughorn suddenly, raising a shaking hand. ‘really, my dear boy, enough … i’m an old man … i don’t need to hear … i don’t want to hear …’ ‘i forgot,’ lied Harry_Potter, felix felicis leading him on. ‘you liked her, didn’t you?’ ‘liked her?’ said slughorn, his eyes brimming with tears once more. ‘i don’t imagine anyone who met her wouldn’t have liked her … very brave … very funny … it was the most horrible thing …’  ‘but you won’t help her son,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘she gave me her life, but you won’t give me a memory.’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s rumbling snores filled the cabin. Harry_Potter looked steadily into slughorn’s tear-filled eyes. the potions master seemed unable to look away. ‘don’t say that,’ he whispered. ‘it isn’t a question … if it were to help you, of course … but no purpose can be served …’ ‘it can,’ said Harry_Potter clearly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore needs information. i need information.’ he knew he was safe: felix was telling him that slughorn would remember nothing of this in the morning. looking slughorn straight in the eye, Harry_Potter leant forwards a little. ‘i am Harry_Potter. i have to kill him. i need that memory.’ slughorn turned paler than ever; his shiny forehead gleamed with sweat. ‘you are Harry_Potter?’ ‘of course i am,’ said Harry_Potter calmly. ‘but then … my dear boy … you’re asking a great deal … you’re asking me, in fact, to aid you in your attempt to desTroy –’ ‘you don’t want to get rid of the wizard who killed Lily_J._Potter evans?’ ‘Harry_Potter, Harry_Potter, of course i do, but –’ ‘you’re scared he’ll find out you helped me?’ slughorn said nothing; he looked terrified. ‘be brave like my mother, professor …’ slughorn raised a pudgy hand and pressed his shaking fingers to his mouth; he looked for a moment like an enormously overgrown baby. ‘i am not proud …’ he whispered through his fingers. ‘i am ashamed of what – of what that memory shows … i think i may have done great damage that day …’ ‘you’d cancel out anything you did by giving me the memory,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘it would be a very brave and noble thing to do.’ Rubeus_Hagrid twitched in his sleep and snored on. slughorn and Harry_Potter stared at each other over the guttering candle. there was a long, long silence, but felix felicis told Harry_Potter not to break it, to wait. then, very slowly, slughorn put his hand in his pocket and pulled out his wand. he put his other hand inside his cloak and took out a small, empty bottle. still looking into Harry_Potter’s eyes, slughorn touched the tip of his wand to his temple and withdrew it, so that a long, silver thread of memory came away too, clinging to the wand-tip. longer and longer the memory stretched until it broke and swung, silvery bright, from the wand. slughorn lowered it into the bottle where it coiled, then spread, swirling like gas. he corked the bottle with a trembling hand and then passed it across the table to Harry_Potter. ‘thank you very much, professor.’ ‘you’re a good boy,’ said professor slughorn, tears trickling down his fat cheeks into his walrus moustache. ‘and you’ve got her eyes … just don’t think too badly of me once you’ve seen it …’ and he, too, put his head on his arms, gave a deep sigh, and fell asleep. 