— chapter nineteen — Winky tails ‘so, all in all, not one of ron’s better birthdays?’ said Fred_Weasley. it was evening; the hospital wing was quiet, the windows curtained, the lamps lit. ron’s was the only occupied bed. Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley were sitting around him; they had spent all day waiting outside the double doors, trying to see inside whenever somebody went in or out. madam pomfrey had only let them enter at eight o’clock. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had arrived at ten past. ‘this isn’t how we imagined handing over our present,’ said George_Weasley grimly, putting down a large wrapped gift on ron’s bedside cabinet and sitting beside Ginevra_Weasley. ‘yeah, when we pictured the scene, he was conscious,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘there we were in hogsmeade, waiting to surprise him –’ said George_Weasley. ‘you were in hogsmeade?’ asked Ginevra_Weasley, looking up. ‘we were thinking of buying zonko’s,’ said Fred_Weasley gloomily. ‘a hogsmeade branch, you know, but a fat lot of good it’ll do us if you lot aren’t allowed out at weekends to buy our stuff any more … but never mind that now.’ he drew up a chair beside Harry_Potter and looked at ron’s pale face. ‘how exactly did it happen, Harry_Potter?’ Harry_Potter retold the story he had already recounted what felt like a hundred times to Albus_Dumbledore, to Minerva_McGonagall, to madam pomfrey, to Hermione_Granger and to Ginevra_Weasley. ‘… and then i got the bezoar down his throat and his breathing eased up a bit, slughorn ran for help, Minerva_McGonagall and madam pomfrey turned up, and they brought Ronald_Weasley up here. they reckon he’ll be all right. madam pomfrey says he’ll have to stay here a week or so … keep taking essence of rue …’ ‘blimey, it was lucky you thought of a bezoar,’ said George_Weasley in a low voice. ‘lucky there was one in the room,’ said Harry_Potter, who kept turning cold at the thought of what would have happened if he had not been able to lay hands on the little stone. Hermione_Granger gave an almost inaudible sniff. she had been exceptionally quiet    all day. having hurtled, white-faced, up to Harry_Potter outside the hospital wing and demanded to know what had happened, she had taken almost no part in Harry_Potter and Ginevra_Weasley’s obsessive discussion about how Ronald_Weasley had been poisoned, but merely stood beside them, clench-jawed and frightened-looking, until at last they had been allowed in to see him. ‘do mum and dad know?’ Fred_Weasley asked Ginevra_Weasley. ‘they’ve already seen him, they arrived an hour ago – they’re in Albus_Dumbledore’s office now, but they’ll be back soon …’ there was a pause while they all watched Ronald_Weasley mumble a little in his sleep. ‘so the poison was in the drink?’ said Fred_Weasley quietly. ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter at once; he could think of nothing else and was glad for the opportunity to start discussing it again. ‘slughorn poured it out –’ ‘would he have been able to slip something into ron’s glass without you seeing?’ ‘probably,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but why would slughorn want to poison Ronald_Weasley’ ‘no idea,’ said Fred_Weasley, frowning. ‘you don’t think he could have mixed up the glasses by mistake? meaning to get you?’ ‘why would slughorn want to poison Harry_Potter?’ asked Ginevra_Weasley. ‘i dunno,’ said Fred_Weasley, ‘but there must be loads of people who’d like to poison Harry_Potter, mustn’t there? the “chosen one” and all that?’ ‘so you think slughorn’s a death eater?’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘anything’s possible,’ said Fred_Weasley darkly. ‘he could be under the imperius curse,’ said George_Weasley. ‘or he could be innocent,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘the poison could have been in the bottle, in which case it was probably meant for slughorn himself.’ ‘who’d want to kill slughorn?’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore reckons voldemort wanted slughorn on his side,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘slughorn was in hiding for a year before he came to hogwarts. and …’ he thought of the memory Albus_Dumbledore had not yet been able to extract from slughorn, ‘and maybe voldemort wants him out of the way, maybe he thinks he could be valuable to Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘but you said slughorn had been planning to give that bottle to Albus_Dumbledore for christmas,’ Ginevra_Weasley reminded him. ‘so the poisoner could just as easily have been after Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘then the poisoner didn’t know slughorn very well,’ said Hermione_Granger, speaking for the first time in hours and sounding as though she had a bad head-cold. ‘anyone who knew slughorn would have known there was a good chance he’d keep something that tasty for himself.’ ‘er-my-nee,’ croaked Ronald_Weasley unexpectedly from between them. they all fell silent, watching him anxiously, but after muttering incomprehensibly for a moment he merely started snoring. the dormitory doors flew open, making them all jump: Rubeus_Hagrid came striding towards them, his hair rain-flecked, his bearskin coat flapping behind him, a crossbow in his hand, leaving a trail of muddy dolphin-sized footprints all over the floor. ‘bin in the forest all day!’ he panted. ‘Aragog’s worse, i bin readin’ to him – didn’ get up ter dinner till jus’ now an’ then professor sprout told me abou’ Ronald_Weasley how is he?’ ‘not bad,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘they say he’ll be ok.’ ‘no more than six visitors at a time!’ said madam pomfrey, hurrying out of her office. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid makes six,’ George_Weasley pointed out. ‘oh … yes …’ said madam pomfrey, who seemed to have been counting Rubeus_Hagrid as several people due to his vastness. to cover her confusion she hurried off to clear up his muddy footprints with her wand. ‘i don’ believe this,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid hoarsely, shaking his great shaggy head as he stared down at Ronald_Weasley ‘jus’ don’ believe it … look at him lyin’ there … who’d want ter hurt him, eh?’ ‘that’s just what we were discussing,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we don’t know.’ ‘someone couldn’ have a grudge against the gryffindor quidditch team, could they?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid anxiously. ‘firs’ Katie_Bell, now Ronald_Weasley …’ ‘i can’t see anyone trying to bump off a quidditch team,’ said George_Weasley. ‘wood might’ve done the slytherins if he could’ve got away with it,’ said Fred_Weasley fairly. ‘well, i don’t think it’s quidditch, but i think there’s a connection between the attacks,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly. ‘how d’you work that out?’ asked Fred_Weasley. ‘well, for one thing, they both ought to have been fatal and weren’t, although that was pure luck. and for another, neither the poison nor the necklace seems to have reached the person who was supposed to be killed. of course,’ she added broodingly, ‘that makes the person behind this even more dangerous in a way, because they don’t seem to care how many people they finish off before they actually reach their victim.’ before anybody could respond to this ominous pronouncement, the dormitory doors opened again and mr and Molly_Weasley hurried up the ward. they had done no more than satisfy themselves that Ronald_Weasley would make a full recovery on their last visit to the ward: now Molly_Weasley seized hold of Harry_Potter and hugged him very tightly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s told us how you saved him with the bezoar,’ she sobbed. ‘oh, Harry_Potter, what can we say? you saved Ginevra_Weasley … you saved Arthur_Weasley … now you’ve saved Ronald_Weasley …’ ‘don’t be … i didn’t …’ muttered Harry_Potter awkwardly. ‘half our family does seem to owe you their lives, now i stop and think about it,’ Arthur_Weasley said in a constricted voice. ‘well, all i can say is that it was a lucky day for the weasleys when Ronald_Weasley decided to sit in your compartment on the hogwarts express, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter could not think of any reply to this and was almost glad when madam pomfrey reminded them again that there were only supposed to be six visitors around ron’s bed; he and Hermione_Granger rose at once to leave and Rubeus_Hagrid decided to go with them, leaving Ronald_Weasley with his family. ‘it’s terrible,’ growled Rubeus_Hagrid into his beard, as the three of them walked back along the corridor to the marble staircase. ‘all this new security, an’ kids are still gettin’ hurt … Albus_Dumbledore’s worried sick … he don’ say much, but i can tell …’ ‘hasn’t he got any ideas, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ asked Hermione_Granger desperately. ‘i ’spect he’s got hundreds of ideas, brain like his,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid staunchly. ‘but he doesn’ know who sent that necklace nor who put poison in that wine, or they’d’ve bin caught, wouldn’ they? wha’ worries me,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, lowering his voice and glancing over his shoulder (Harry_Potter, for good measure, checked the ceiling for Peeves), ‘is how long hogwarts can stay open if kids are bein’ attacked. chamber o’ secrets all over again, isn’ it? there’ll be panic, more parents takin’ their kids outta school, an’ nex’ thing yeh know the board o’ governors …’ Rubeus_Hagrid stopped talking as the ghost of a long-haired woman drifted serenely past, then resumed in a hoarse whisper, ‘… the board o’ governors’ll be talkin’ about shuttin’ us up fer good.’ ‘surely not?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking worried. ‘gotta see it from their point o’ view,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid heavily. ‘i mean, it’s always bin a bit of a risk sendin’ a kid ter hogwarts, hasn’ it? yer expect accidents, don’ yeh, with hundreds of under-age wizards all locked up tergether, but attempted murder, tha’s diff ’rent. ’s no wonder Albus_Dumbledore’s angry with sn—’ Rubeus_Hagrid stopped in his tracks, a familiar, guilty expression on what was visible of his face above his tangled black beard. ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s angry with snape?’ ‘i never said tha’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, though his look of panic could not have been a bigger give-away. ‘look at the time, it’s gettin’ on fer midnight, i need ter –’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, why is Albus_Dumbledore angry with snape?’ Harry_Potter asked loudly. ‘shhhh!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking both nervous and angry. ‘don’ shout stuff like that, Harry_Potter, d’you wan’ me ter lose me job? mind, i don’ suppose you’d care, would yeh, not now you’ve given up care of mag—’ ‘don’t try and make me feel guilty, it won’t work!’ said Harry_Potter forcefully. ‘what’s snape done?’ ‘i dunno, Harry_Potter, i shouldn’ta heard it at all! i – well, i was comin’ outta the forest the other evenin’ an’ i overheard ’em talkin’ – well, arguin’. didn’t like ter draw attention to meself, so i sorta skulked an’ tried not ter listen, but it was a – well, a heated discussion, an’ it wasn’ easy ter block it out.’ ‘well?’ Harry_Potter urged him, as Rubeus_Hagrid shuffled his enormous feet uneasily. ‘well – i jus’ heard snape sayin’ Albus_Dumbledore took too much fer granted an’ maybe he – snape – didn’ wan’ ter do it any more –’ ‘do what?’ ‘i dunno, Harry_Potter, it sounded like snape was feelin’ a bit overworked, tha’s all – anyway, Albus_Dumbledore told him flat out he’d agreed ter do it an’ that was all there was to it. pretty firm with him. an’ then he said summat abou’ snape makin’ investigations in his house, in slytherin. well, there’s nothin’ strange abou’ that!’ Rubeus_Hagrid added hastily, as Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger exchanged looks full of meaning. ‘all the heads o’ house were asked ter look inter that necklace business –’ ‘yeah, but Albus_Dumbledore’s not having rows with the rest of them, is he?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘look,’ Rubeus_Hagrid twisted his crossbow uncomfortably in his hands; there was a loud splintering sound and it snapped in two, ‘i know what yeh’re like abou’ snape, Harry_Potter, an’ i don’ want yeh ter go readin’ more inter this than there is.’ ‘look out,’ said Hermione_Granger tersely. they turned just in time to see the shadow of Argus_Filch looming over the wall behind them before the man himself turned the corner, hunchbacked, his jowls aquiver. ‘oho!’ he wheezed. ‘out of bed so late, this’ll mean detention!’ ‘no it won’, filch,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid shortly. ‘they’re with me, aren’ they?’ ‘and what difference does that make?’ asked filch obnoxiously. ‘i’m a ruddy teacher, aren’ i, yeh sneakin’ squib!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, firing up at once. there was a nasty hissing noise as filch swelled with fury; Mrs_Norris had arrived, unseen, and was twisting herself sinuously around filch’s skinny ankles. ‘get goin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid out of the corner of his mouth. Harry_Potter did not need telling twice; he and Hermione_Granger both hurried off, Rubeus_Hagrid and filch’s raised voices echoing behind them as they ran. they passed Peeves near the turning into gryffindor tower, but he was streaking happily towards the source of the yelling, cackling and calling, when there’s strife and when there’s trouble call on Peeves, he’ll make double!’ the Fat_Lady was snoozing and not pleased to be awoken, but swung forwards grumpily to allow them to clamber into the mercifully peaceful and empty common room. it did not seem that people knew about Ronald_Weasley yet; Harry_Potter was very relieved, he had been interrogated enough that day. Hermione_Granger bade him goodnight and set off for the girls’ dormitory. Harry_Potter, however, remained behind, taking a seat beside the fire and looking down into the dying embers. so Albus_Dumbledore had argued with snape. in spite of all he had told Harry_Potter, in spite of his insistence that he trusted snape completely, he had lost his temper with him … he did not think that snape had tried hard enough to investigate the slytherins … or, perhaps, to investigate a single slytherin: malfoy? was it because Albus_Dumbledore did not want Harry_Potter to do anything foolish, to take matters into his own hands, that he had pretended there was nothing in Harry_Potter’s suspicions? that seemed likely. it might even be that Albus_Dumbledore did not want anything to distract Harry_Potter from their lessons, or from procuring that memory from slughorn. perhaps Albus_Dumbledore did not think it right to confide suspicions about his staff to sixteen-year-olds … ‘there you are, potter!’ Harry_Potter jumped to his feet in shock, his wand at the ready. he had been quite convinced that the common room was empty; he had not been at all prepared for a hulking figure to rise, suddenly, out of a distant chair. a closer look showed him that it was Cormac_McLaggen.   ‘i’ve been waiting for you to come back,’ said mclaggen, disregarding Harry_Potter’s drawn wand. ‘must’ve fallen asleep. look, i saw them taking weasley up to the hospital wing earlier. didn’t look like he’ll be fit for next week’s match.’ it took Harry_Potter a few moments to realise what mclaggen was talking about. ‘oh … right … quidditch,’ he said, putting his wand back into the belt of his jeans and running a hand wearily through his hair. ‘yeah … he might not make it.’ ‘well, then, i’ll be playing keeper, won’t i?’ said mclaggen. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah, i suppose so …’ he could not think of an argument against it; after all, mclaggen had certainly performed second best in the trials. ‘excellent,’ said mclaggen in a satisfied voice. ‘so when’s practice?’ ‘what? oh … there’s one tomorrow evening.’ ‘good. listen, potter, we should have a talk beforehand. i’ve got some ideas on strategy you might find useful.’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter unenthusiastically. ‘well, i’ll hear them tomorrow, then. i’m pretty tired now … see you …’ the news that Ronald_Weasley had been poisoned spread quickly next day, but it did not cause the sensation that Katie_Bell’s attack had done. people seemed to think that it might have been an accident, given that he had been in the potion master’s room at the time, and that as he had been given an antidote immediately there was no real harm done. in fact, the gryffindors were generally much more interested in the upcoming quidditch match against hufflepuff, for many of them wanted to see Zacharias_Smith, who played chaser on the hufflepuff team, punished soundly for his commentary during the opening match against slytherin. Harry_Potter, however, had never been less interested in quidditch; he was rapidly becoming obsessed with Draco_Malfoy. still checking the marauder’s map whenever he got a chance, he sometimes made detours to wherever malfoy happened to be, but had not yet detected him doing anything out of the ordinary. and still there were those inexplicable times when malfoy simply vanished from the map … but Harry_Potter did not get a lot of time to consider the problem, what with quidditch practice, homework, and the fact that he was now being dogged wherever he went by Cormac_McLaggen and Lavender_Brown. he could not decide which of them was more annoying. mclaggen kept up a constant stream of hints that he would make a better permanent keeper for the team than Ronald_Weasley and that now Harry_Potter was seeing him play regularly he would surely come around to this way of thinking, too; he was also keen to criticise the other players and provide Harry_Potter with detailed training schemes, so that more than once Harry_Potter was forced to remind him who was captain. meanwhile, Lavender_Brown kept sidling up to Harry_Potter to discuss Ronald_Weasley which Harry_Potter found almost more wearing than mclaggen’s quidditch lectures. at first, Lavender_Brown had been very annoyed that nobody had thought to tell her that Ronald_Weasley was in the hospital wing – ‘i mean, i am his girlfriend!’ – but unfortunately she had now decided to forgive Harry_Potter this lapse of memory and was keen to have lots of in-depth chats with him about ron’s feelings, a most uncomfortable experience that Harry_Potter would have happily forgone. ‘look, why don’t you talk to Ronald_Weasley about all this?’ Harry_Potter asked, after a particularly long interrogation from Lavender_Brown that took in everything from precisely what Ronald_Weasley had said about her new dress robes to whether or not Harry_Potter thought that Ronald_Weasley considered his relationship with Lavender_Brown to be ‘serious’. ‘well, i would, but he’s always asleep when i go and see him!’ said Lavender_Brown fretfully. ‘is he?’ said Harry_Potter, surprised, for he had found Ronald_Weasley perfectly alert every time he had been up to the hospital wing, both highly interested in the news of Albus_Dumbledore and snape’s row and keen to abuse mclaggen as much as possible. ‘is Hermione_Granger still visiting him?’ Lavender_Brown demanded suddenly. ‘yeah, i think so. well, they’re friends, aren’t they?’ said Harry_Potter uncomfortably. ‘friends, don’t make me laugh,’ said Lavender_Brown scornfully. ‘she didn’t talk to him for weeks after he started going out with me! but i suppose she wants to make up with him now he’s all interesting …’ ‘would you call getting poisoned being interesting?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘anyway – sorry, got to go – there’s mclaggen coming for a talk about quidditch,’ said Harry_Potter hurriedly, and he dashed sideways through a door pretending to be solid wall and sprinted down the short cut that would take him off to potions where, thankfully, neither Lavender_Brown nor mclaggen could follow him. on the morning of the quidditch match against hufflepuff Harry_Potter dropped in on the hospital wing before heading down to the pitch. Ronald_Weasley was very agitated; madam pomfrey would not let him go down to watch the match, feeling it would overexcite him. ‘so how’s mclaggen shaping up?’ he asked Harry_Potter nervously, apparently forgetting that he had already asked the same question twice. ‘i’ve told you,’ said Harry_Potter patiently, ‘he could be world class and i wouldn’t want to keep him. he keeps trying to tell everyone what to do, he thinks he could play every position better than the rest of us. i can’t wait to be shot of him. and speaking of getting shot of people,’ Harry_Potter added, getting to his feet and picking up his firebolt, ‘will you stop pretending to be asleep when Lavender_Brown comes to see you? she’s driving me mad as well.’ ‘oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking sheepish. ‘yeah. all right.’ ‘if you don’t want to go out with her any more, just tell her,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah … well … it’s not that easy, is it?’ said Ronald_Weasley he paused. ‘Hermione_Granger going to look in before the match?’ he added casually. ‘no, she’s already gone down to the pitch with Ginevra_Weasley.’ ‘oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking rather glum. ‘right. well, good luck. Hope_Howell you hammer mclag— i mean, smith.’ ‘i’ll try,’ said Harry_Potter, shouldering his broom. ‘see you after the match.’ he hurried down through the deserted corridors; the whole school was outside, either already seated in the stadium or heading down towards it. he was looking out of the windows he passed, trying to gauge how much wind they were facing, when a noise ahead made him glance up and he saw malfoy walking towards him, accompanied by two girls, both of whom looked sulky and resentful. malfoy stopped short at the sight of Harry_Potter, then gave a short, humourless laugh and continued walking. ‘where’re you going?’ Harry_Potter demanded. ‘yeah, i’m really going to tell you, because it’s your business, potter,’ sneered malfoy. ‘you’d better hurry up, they’ll be waiting for the chosen captain – the boy who scored – whatever they call you these days.’ one of the girls gave an unwilling giggle. Harry_Potter stared at her. she blushed. malfoy pushed past Harry_Potter and she and her friend followed at a trot, turning the corner and vanishing from view. Harry_Potter stood rooted on the spot and watched them disappear. this was infuriating; he was already cutting it fine to get to the match on time and yet there was malfoy, skulking off while the rest of the school was absent: Harry_Potter’s best chance yet of discovering what malfoy was up to. the silent seconds trickled past, and Harry_Potter remained where he was, frozen, gazing at the place where malfoy had vanished … ‘where have you been?’ demanded Ginevra_Weasley, as Harry_Potter sprinted into the changing room. the whole team was changed and ready; coote and peakes, the beaters, were both hitting their clubs nervously against their legs. ‘i met malfoy,’ Harry_Potter told her quietly, as he pulled his scarlet robes over his head. ‘so?’ ‘so i wanted to know how come he’s up at the castle with a couple of girlfriends while everyone else is down here …’ ‘does it matter right now?’ ‘well, i’m not likely to find out, am i?’ said Harry_Potter, seizing his firebolt and pushing his glasses straight. ‘come on, then!’ and without another word, he marched out on to the pitch to deafening cheers and boos. there was little wind; the clouds were patchy; every now and then there were dazzling flashes of bright sunlight. ‘tricky conditions!’ mclaggen said bracingly to the team. ‘coote, peakes, you’ll want to fly out of the sun, so they don’t see you coming –’ ‘i’m the captain, mclaggen, shut up giving them instructions,’ said Harry_Potter angrily. ‘just get up by the goalposts!’ once mclaggen had marched off, Harry_Potter turned to coote and peakes. ‘make sure you do fly out of the sun,’ he told them grudgingly. he shook hands with the hufflepuff captain, and then, on madam Rolanda_Hooch’s whistle, kicked off and rose into the air, higher than the rest of his team, streaking around the pitch in search of the snitch. if he could catch it good and early, there might be a chance he could get back up to the castle, seize the marauder’s map and find out what malfoy was doing … ‘and that’s smith of hufflepuff with the quaffle,’ said a dreamy voice, echoing over the grounds. ‘he did the commentary last time, of course, and Ginevra_Weasley weasley flew into him, i think probably on purpose – it looked like it. smith was being quite rude about gryffindor, i expect he regrets that now he’s playing them – oh, look, he’s lost the quaffle, Ginevra_Weasley took it from him, i do like her, she’s very nice …’ Harry_Potter stared down at the commentator’s podium. surely, nobody in their right mind would have let Luna_Lovegood commentate? but even from above there was no mistaking that long, dirty-blonde hair, or the necklace of butterbeer corks … beside Luna_Lovegood, professor Minerva_McGonagall was looking slightly uncomfortable, as though she was indeed having second thoughts about this appointment. ‘… but now that big hufflepuff player’s got the quaffle from her, i can’t remember his name, it’s something like bibble – no, buggins –’ ‘it’s Cadwallader!’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall loudly from beside Luna_Lovegood. the crowd laughed. Harry_Potter stared around for the snitch; there was no sign of it. moments later, Cadwallader scored. mclaggen had been shouting criticism at Ginevra_Weasley for allowing the quaffle out of her possession, with the result that he had not noticed the large red ball soaring past his right ear. ‘mclaggen, will you pay attention to what you’re supposed to be doing and leave everyone else alone!’ bellowed Harry_Potter, wheeling round to face his keeper. ‘you’re not setting a great example!’ mclaggen shouted back, red-faced and furious. ‘and Harry_Potter’s now having an argument with his keeper,’ said Luna_Lovegood serenely, while both hufflepuffs and slytherins below in the crowd cheered and jeered. ‘i don’t think that’ll help him find the snitch, but maybe it’s a clever ruse …’ swearing angrily, Harry_Potter spun round and set off around the pitch again, scanning the skies for some sign of the tiny winged golden ball. Ginevra_Weasley and Demelza_Robins scored a goal apiece, giving the red-and-gold-clad supporters below something to cheer about. then Cadwallader scored again, making things level, but Luna_Lovegood did not seem to have noticed; she appeared singularly uninterested in such mundane things as the score, and kept attempting to draw the crowd’s attention to such things as interestingly shaped clouds and the possibility that Zacharias_Smith, who had so far failed to maintain possession of the quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering from something called ‘loser’s lurgy’. ‘seventy–forty to hufflepuff!’ barked professor Minerva_McGonagall into Luna_Lovegood’s megaphone. ‘is it, already?’ said Luna_Lovegood vaguely. ‘oh, look! the gryffindor keeper’s got hold of one of the beater’s bats.’ Harry_Potter spun round in midair. sure enough, mclaggen, for reasons best known to himself, had pulled peakes’s bat from him and appeared to be demonstrating how to hit a bludger towards an oncoming Cadwallader. ‘will you give him back his bat and get back to the goalposts!’ roared Harry_Potter, pelting towards mclaggen just as mclaggen took a ferocious swipe at the bludger and mis-hit it. a blinding, sickening pain … a flash of light … distant screams … and the sensation of falling down a long tunnel … and the next thing Harry_Potter knew, he was lying in a remarkably warm and comfortable bed and looking up at a lamp that was throwing a circle of golden light on to a shadowy ceiling. he raised his head awkwardly. there on his left was a familiar-looking, freckly, red-haired person. ‘nice of you to drop in,’ said Ronald_Weasley grinning. Harry_Potter blinked and looked around. of course: he was in the hospital wing. the sky outside was indigo streaked with crimson. the match must have finished hours ago … as had any Hope_Howell of cornering malfoy. Harry_Potter’s head felt strangely heavy; he raised a hand and felt a stiff turban of bandages. ‘what happened?’ ‘cracked skull,’ said madam pomfrey, bustling up and pushing him back against his pillows. ‘nothing to worry about, i mended it at once, but i’m keeping you in overnight. you shouldn’t overexert yourself for a few hours.’ ‘i don’t want to stay here overnight,’ said Harry_Potter angrily, sitting up and throwing back his covers, ‘i want to find mclaggen and kill him.’ ‘i’m afraid that would come under the heading of “overexertion”,’ said madam pomfrey, pushing him firmly back on to the bed and raising her wand in a threatening manner. ‘you will stay here until i discharge you, potter, or i shall call the headmaster.’ she bustled back into her office and Harry_Potter sank back into his pillows, fuming. ‘d’you know how much we lost by?’ he asked Ronald_Weasley through clenched teeth. ‘well, yeah i do,’ said Ronald_Weasley apologetically. ‘final score was three hundred and twenty to sixty.’ ‘brilliant,’ said Harry_Potter savagely. ‘really brilliant! when i get hold of mclaggen –’ ‘you don’t want to get hold of him, he’s the size of a troll,’ said Ronald_Weasley reasonably. ‘personally i think there’s a lot to be said for hexing him with that toenail thing of the prince’s. anyway, the rest of the team might’ve dealt with him before you get out of here, they’re not happy …’ there was a note of badly suppressed glee in ron’s voice; Harry_Potter could tell he was nothing short of thrilled that mclaggen had messed up so badly. Harry_Potter lay there, staring up at the patch of light on the ceiling, his recently mended skull not hurting, precisely, but feeling slightly tender underneath all the bandaging. ‘i could hear the match commentary from here,’ said Ronald_Weasley his voice now shaking with laughter. ‘i Hope_Howell Luna_Lovegood always commentates from now on … loser’s lurgy …’ but Harry_Potter was still too angry to see much humour in the situation, and after a while ron’s snorts subsided. ‘Ginevra_Weasley came in to visit while you were unconscious,’ he said, after a long pause, and Harry_Potter’s imagination zoomed into overdrive, rapidly constructing a scene in which Ginevra_Weasley, weeping over his lifeless form, confessed her feelings of deep attraction to him while Ronald_Weasley gave them his blessing … ‘she reckons you only just arrived in time for the match. how come? you left here early enough.’ ‘oh …’ said Harry_Potter, as the scene in his mind’s eye imploded. ‘yeah … well, i saw malfoy sneaking off with a couple of girls who didn’t look like they wanted to be with him, and that’s the second time he’s made sure he isn’t down on the quidditch pitch with the rest of the school. he skipped the last match too, remember?’ Harry_Potter sighed. ‘wish i’d followed him now, the match was such a fiasco …’ ‘don’t be stupid,’ said Ronald_Weasley sharply. ‘you couldn’t have missed a quidditch match just to follow malfoy, you’re the captain!’ ‘i want to know what he’s up to,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘and don’t tell me it’s all in my head, not after what i overheard between him and snape –’ ‘i never said it was all in your head,’ said Ronald_Weasley hoisting himself up on an elbow in turn and frowning at Harry_Potter, ‘but there’s no rule saying only one person at a time can be plotting anything in this place! you’re getting a bit obsessed with malfoy, Harry_Potter. i mean, thinking about missing a match just to follow him …’ ‘i want to catch him at it!’ said Harry_Potter in frustration. ‘i mean, where’s he going when he disappears off the map?’ ‘i dunno … hogsmeade?’ suggested Ronald_Weasley yawning. ‘i’ve never seen him going along any of the secret passageways on the map. i thought they were being watched now, anyway?’ ‘well, then, i dunno,’ said Ronald_Weasley silence fell between them. Harry_Potter stared up at the circle of lamplight above him, thinking … if only he had Rufus_Scrimgeour’s power, he would have been able to set a tail upon malfoy, but unfortunately Harry_Potter did not have an office full of aurors at his command … he thought fleetingly of trying to set something up with the da, but there again was the problem that people would be missed from lessons; most of them, after all, still had full timetables … there was a low, rumbling snore from ron’s bed. after a while madam pomfrey came out of her office, this time wearing a thick dressing-gown. it was easiest to feign sleep; Harry_Potter rolled over on to his side and listened to all the curtains closing themselves as she waved her wand. the lamps dimmed, and she returned to her office; he heard the door click behind her, and knew that she was off to bed. this was, Harry_Potter reflected in the darkness, the third time that he had been brought to the hospital wing because of a quidditch injury. last time he had fallen off his broom due to the presence of dementors around the pitch, and the time before that, all the bones had been removed from his arm by the incurably inept professor lockhart … that had been his most painful injury by far … he remembered the agony of regrowing an armful of bones in one night, a discomfort not eased by the arrival of an unexpected visitor in the middle of the – Harry_Potter sat bolt upright, his heart pounding, his bandage turban askew. he had the solution at last: there was a way to have malfoy followed – how could he have forgotten, why hadn’t he thought of it before? but the question was, how to call him? what did you do? quietly, tentatively, Harry_Potter spoke into the darkness. ‘Kreacher?’ there was a very loud crack and the sounds of scuffling and squeaks filled the silent room. Ronald_Weasley awoke with a yelp. ‘what’s going –?’ Harry_Potter pointed his wand hastily at the door of madam pomfrey’s office and muttered ‘muffliato!’ so that she would not come running. then he scrambled to the end of his bed for a better look at what was going on. two house-elves were rolling around on the floor in the middle of the dormitory, one wearing a shrunken maroon jumper and several woolly hats, the other, a filthy old rag strung over his hips like a loincloth. then there was another loud bang, and Peeves the poltergeist appeared in midair above the wrestling elves. ‘i was watching that, potty!’ he told Harry_Potter indignantly, pointing at the fight below, before letting out a loud cackle. ‘look at the ickle creatures squabbling, bitey bitey, punchy punchy –’ ‘Kreacher will not insult Harry_Potter in front of Dobby, no he won’t, or Dobby will shut Kreacher’s mouth for him!’ cried Dobby in a high-pitched voice. ‘– kicky, scratchy!’ cried Peeves happily, now pelting bits of chalk at the elves to enrage them further. ‘tweaky, pokey!’ ‘Kreacher will say what he likes about his master, oh yes, and what a master he is, filthy friend of mudbloods, oh, what would poor Kreacher’s mistress say –?’ exactly what Kreacher’s mistress would have said they did not find out, for at that moment Dobby sank his knobbly little fist into Kreacher’s mouth and knocked out half of his teeth. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley both leapt out of their beds and wrenched the two elves apart, though they continued to try to kick and punch each other, egged on by Peeves, who swooped around the lamp squealing, ‘stick your fingers up his nosey, draw his cork and pull his earsies –’ Harry_Potter aimed his wand at Peeves and said, ‘langlock!’ Peeves clutched at his throat, gulped, then swooped from the room making obscene gestures but unable to speak, owing to the fact that his tongue had just glued itself to the roof of his mouth. ‘nice one,’ said Ronald_Weasley appreciatively, lifting Dobby into the air so that his flailing limbs no longer made contact with Kreacher. ‘that was another prince hex, wasn’t it?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, twisting Kreacher’s wizened arm into a half-nelson. ‘right – i’m forbidding you to fight each other! well, Kreacher, you’re forbidden to fight Dobby. Dobby, i know i’m not allowed to give you orders –’ ‘Dobby is a free house-elf and he can obey anyone he likes and Dobby will do whatever Harry_Potter wants him to do!’ said Dobby, tears now streaming down his shrivelled little face on to his jumper. ‘ok, then,’ said Harry_Potter and he and Ronald_Weasley both released the elves, who fell to the floor, but did not continue fighting. ‘master called me?’ croaked Kreacher, sinking into a bow even as he gave Harry_Potter a look that plainly wished him a painful death. ‘yeah, i did,’ said Harry_Potter, glancing towards madam pomfrey’s office door to check that the muffliato spell was still working; there was no sign that she had heard any of the commotion. ‘i’ve got a job for you.’ ‘Kreacher will do whatever master wants,’ said Kreacher, sinking so low that his lips almost touched his gnarled toes, ‘because Kreacher has no choice, but Kreacher is ashamed to have such a master, yes –’ ‘Dobby will do it, Harry_Potter!’ squeaked Dobby, his tennis-ball-sized eyes still swimming with tears. ‘Dobby would be honoured to help Harry_Potter!’ ‘come to think of it, it would be good to have both of you,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘ok, then … i want you to tail Draco_Malfoy.’ ignoring the look of mingled surprise and exasperation on ron’s face, Harry_Potter went on, ‘i want to know where he’s going, who he’s meeting and what he’s doing. i want you to follow him around the clock.’ ‘yes, Harry_Potter!’ said Dobby at once, his great eyes shining with excitement. ‘and if Dobby does it wrong, Dobby will throw himself off the topmost tower, Harry_Potter!’ ‘there won’t be any need for that,’ said Harry_Potter hastily. ‘master wants me to follow the youngest of the malfoys?’ croaked Kreacher. ‘master wants me to spy upon the pureblood great-nephew of my old mistress?’ ‘that’s the one,’ said Harry_Potter, foreseeing a great danger and determining to prevent it immediately. ‘and you’re forbidden to tip him off, Kreacher, or to show him what you’re up to, or to talk to him at all, or to write him messages, or … or to contact him in any way. got it?’ he thought he could see Kreacher struggling to see a loophole in the instructions he had just been given, and waited. after a moment or two, and to Harry_Potter’s great satisfaction, Kreacher bowed deeply again and said, with bitter resentment, ‘master thinks of everything and Kreacher must obey him even though Kreacher would much rather be the servant of the malfoy boy, oh yes …’ ‘that’s settled, then,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i’ll want regular reports, but make sure i’m not surrounded by people when you turn up. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger are ok. and don’t tell anyone what you’re doing. just stick to malfoy like a couple of wart plasters.’ 