— chapter twenty-eight — flight of the prince Harry_Potter felt as though he, too, were hurtling through space; it had not happened … it could not have happened … ‘out of here, quickly,’ said snape. he seized malfoy by the scruff of the neck and forced him through the door ahead of the rest; Fenrir_Greyback and the squat brother and sister followed, the latter both panting excitedly. as they vanished through the door Harry_Potter realised he could move again; what was now holding him paralysed against the wall was not magic, but horror and shock. he threw the invisibility cloak aside as the brutal-faced death eater, last to leave the tower top, was disappearing through the door. ‘petrificus totalus!’ the death eater buckled as though hit in the back with something solid, and fell to the ground, rigid as a waxwork, but he had barely hit the floor when Harry_Potter was clambering over him and running down the darkened staircase. terror tore at Harry_Potter’s heart … he had to get to Albus_Dumbledore and he had to catch snape … somehow the two things were linked … he could reverse what had happened if he had them both together … Albus_Dumbledore could not have died … he leapt the last ten steps of the spiral staircase and stopped where he landed, his wand raised: the dimly lit corridor was full of dust; half the ceiling seemed to have fallen in and a battle was raging before him, but even as he attempted to make out who was fighting whom, he heard the hated voice shout, ‘it’s over, time to go!’ and saw snape disappearing round the corner at the far end of the corridor; he and malfoy seemed to have forced their way through the fight unscathed. as Harry_Potter plunged after them, one of the fighters detached themself from the fray and flew at him: it was the werewolf, Fenrir_Greyback. he was on top of Harry_Potter before Harry_Potter could raise his wand: Harry_Potter fell backwards, with filthy matted hair in his face, the stench of sweat and blood filling his nose and mouth, hot greedy breath at his throat –    ‘petrificus totalus!’ Harry_Potter felt Fenrir_Greyback collapse against him; with a stupendous effort he pushed the werewolf off and on to the floor as a jet of green light came flying towards him; he ducked and ran, headfirst, into the fight. his feet met something squashy and slippery on the floor and he stumbled: there were two bodies lying there, lying face down in a pool of blood, but there was no time to investigate: Harry_Potter now saw red hair flying like flames in front of him: Ginevra_Weasley was locked in combat with the lumpy death eater, Amycus_Carrow, who was throwing hex after hex at her while she dodged them: Amycus_Carrow was giggling, enjoying the sport: ‘crucio – crucio – you can’t dance for ever, pretty –’ ‘impedimenta!’ yelled Harry_Potter. his jinx hit Amycus_Carrow in the chest: he gave a piglike squeal of pain, was lifted off his feet and slammed into the opposite wall, slid down it and fell out of sight behind Ronald_Weasley professor Minerva_McGonagall and lupin, each of whom was battling a separate death eater: beyond them, Harry_Potter saw Nymphadora_Tonks fighting an enormous blond wizard who was sending curses flying in all directions, so that they ricocheted off the walls around them, cracking stone, shattering the nearest window – ‘Harry_Potter, where did you come from?’ Ginevra_Weasley cried, but there was no time to answer her. he put his head down and sprinted forwards, narrowly avoiding a blast that erupted over his head, showering them all in bits of wall: snape must not escape, he must catch up with snape – ‘take that!’ shouted professor Minerva_McGonagall, and Harry_Potter glimpsed the female death eater, Alecto_Carrow, sprinting away down the corridor with her arms over her head, her brother right behind her. Harry_Potter launched himself after them, but his foot caught on something and next moment he was lying across someone’s legs: looking around, he saw Neville_Longbottom’s pale, round face flat against the floor. ‘Neville_Longbottom, are you –?’ ‘’m’all right,’ muttered Neville_Longbottom, who was clutching his stomach, ‘Harry_Potter … snape ’n’ malfoy … ran past …’ ‘i know, i’m on it!’ said Harry_Potter, aiming a hex from the floor at the enormous blond death eater who was causing most of the chaos: the man gave a howl of pain as the spell hit him in the face; he wheeled round, staggered and then pounded away after the brother and sister. Harry_Potter scrambled up from the floor and began to sprint along the corridor, ignoring the bangs issuing from behind him, the yells of the others to come back, and the mute call of the figures on the ground, whose fate he did not yet know … he skidded round the corner, his trainers slippery with blood; snape had an immense head-start – was it possible that he had already entered the cabinet in the room of requirement, or had the order made steps to secure it, to prevent the death eaters retreating that way? he could hear nothing but his own pounding feet, his own hammering heart as he sprinted along the next empty corridor, but then spotted a Bloody_Baron footprint which showed that at least one of the fleeing death eaters was heading towards the front doors – perhaps the room of requirement was indeed blocked – he skidded round another corner and a curse flew past him; he dived behind a suit of armour which exploded; he saw the brother and sister death eaters running down the marble staircase ahead and aimed jinxes at them, but merely hit several bewigged witches in a portrait on the landing, who ran screeching into neighbouring paintings; as he leapt over the wreckage of armour Harry_Potter heard more shouts and screams; other people within the castle seemed to have awoken … he pelted towards a short cut, hoping to overtake the brother and sister and close in on snape and malfoy, who must surely have reached the grounds by now; remembering to leap the vanishing step halfway down the concealed staircase he burst through a tapestry at the bottom and out into a corridor where a number of bewildered and pyjama-clad hufflepuffs stood. ‘Harry_Potter! we heard a noise and someone said something about the dark mark –’ began Ernest_Prangmacmillan. ‘out of the way!’ yelled Harry_Potter, knocking two boys aside as he sprinted towards the landing and down the remainder of the marble staircase. the oak front doors had been blasted open; there were smears of blood on the flagstones and several terrified students stood huddled against the walls, one or two still cowering with their arms over their faces; the giant gryffindor hour-glass had been hit by a curse and the rubies within were still falling, with a loud rattle, on to the flagstones below … Harry_Potter flew across the entrance hall and out into the dark grounds: he could just make out three figures racing across the lawn, heading for the gates beyond which they could disapparate – by the looks of them, the huge blond death eater and, some way ahead of him, snape and malfoy … the cold night air ripped at Harry_Potter’s lungs as he tore after them; he saw a flash of light in the distance that momentarily silhouetted his quarry; he did not know what it was but continued to run, not yet near enough to get a good aim with a curse – another flash, shouts, retaliatory jets of light, and Harry_Potter understood: Rubeus_Hagrid had emerged from his cabin and was trying to stop the death eaters escaping, and though every breath seemed to shred his lungs and the stitch in his chest was like fire, Harry_Potter sped up as an unbidden voice in his head said: not Rubeus_Hagrid … not Rubeus_Hagrid too … something caught Harry_Potter hard in the small of the back and he fell forwards, his face smacking the ground, blood pouring out of both nostrils: he knew, even as he rolled over, his wand ready, that the brother and sister he had overtaken using his short cut were closing in behind him … ‘impedimenta!’ he yelled as he rolled over again, crouching close to the dark ground, and miraculously his jinx hit one of them, who stumbled and fell, tripping up the other; Harry_Potter leapt to his feet and sprinted on, after snape … and now he saw the vast outline of Rubeus_Hagrid, illuminated by the light of the crescent moon revealed suddenly from behind clouds; the blond death eater was aiming curse after curse at the gamekeeper, but Rubeus_Hagrid’s immense strength, and the toughened skin he had inherited from his giantess mother, seemed to be protecting him; snape and malfoy, however, were still running; they would soon be beyond the gates, able to disapparate – Harry_Potter tore past Rubeus_Hagrid and his opponent, took aim at snape’s back and yelled, ‘stupefy!’ he missed; the jet of red light soared past snape’s head; snape shouted, ‘run, Draco_Malfoy!’ and turned; twenty yards apart he and Harry_Potter looked at each other before raising their wands simultaneously. ‘cruc—’ but snape parried the curse, knocking Harry_Potter backwards off his feet before he could complete it; Harry_Potter rolled over and scrambled back up again as the huge death eater behind him yelled, ‘incendio!’; Harry_Potter heard an explosive bang and a dancing orange light spilled over all of them: Rubeus_Hagrid’s house was on fire. ‘Fang’s in there, yeh evil –!’ Rubeus_Hagrid bellowed. ‘cruc—’ yelled Harry_Potter for the second time, aiming for the figure ahead illuminated in the dancing firelight, but snape blocked the spell again; Harry_Potter could see him sneering. ‘no unforgivable curses from you, potter!’ he shouted over the rushing of the flames, Rubeus_Hagrid’s yells and the wild yelping of the trapped Fang. ‘you haven’t got the nerve or the ability –’ ‘incarc—’ Harry_Potter roared, but snape deflected the spell with an almost lazy flick of his arm. ‘fight back!’ Harry_Potter screamed at him. ‘fight back, you cowardly –’ ‘coward, did you call me, potter?’ shouted snape. ‘your father would never attack me unless it was four on one, what would you call him, i wonder?’ ‘stupe—’ ‘blocked again, and again, and again until you learn to keep your mouth shut and your mind closed, potter!’ sneered snape, deflecting the curse once more. ‘now come!’ he shouted at the huge death eater behind Harry_Potter. ‘it is time to be gone, before the ministry turns up –’ ‘impedi—’ but before he could finish this jinx, excruciating pain hit Harry_Potter; he keeled over in the grass, someone was screaming, he would surely die of this agony, snape was going to torture him to death or madness – ‘no!’ roared snape’s voice and the pain stopped as suddenly as it had started; Harry_Potter lay curled on the dark grass, clutching his wand and panting; somewhere above him snape was shouting, ‘have you forgotten our orders? potter belongs to the dark lord – we are to leave him! go! go!’ and Harry_Potter felt the ground shudder under his face as the brother and sister and the enormous death eater obeyed, running towards the gates. Harry_Potter uttered an inarticulate yell of rage: in that instant, he cared not whether he lived or died; pushing himself to his feet again, he staggered blindly towards snape, the man he now hated as much as he hated voldemort himself – ‘sectum—’ snape flicked his wand and the curse was repelled yet again; but Harry_Potter was mere feet away now and he could see snape’s face clearly at last: he was no longer sneering or jeering; the blazing flames showed a face full of rage. mustering all his powers of concentration, Harry_Potter thought, levi— ‘no, potter!’ screamed snape. there was a loud bang and Harry_Potter was soaring backwards, hitting the ground hard again, and this time his wand flew out of his hand. he could hear Rubeus_Hagrid yelling and Fang howling as snape closed in and looked down on him where he lay, wandless and defenceless as Albus_Dumbledore had been. snape’s pale face, illuminated by the flaming cabin, was suffused with hatred just as it had been before he had cursed Albus_Dumbledore. ‘you dare use my own spells against me, potter? it was i who invented them – i, the Severus_Snape! and you’d turn my inventions on me, like your filthy father, would you? i don’t think so … no!’ Harry_Potter had dived for his wand; snape shot a hex at it and it flew feet away into the darkness and out of sight. ‘kill me, then,’ panted Harry_Potter, who felt no fear at all, but only rage and contempt. ‘kill me like you killed him, you coward –’ ‘don’t –’ screamed snape, and his face was suddenly demented, inhuman, as though he was in as much pain as the yelping, howling dog stuck in the burning house behind them, ‘– call me coward!’ and he slashed at the air: Harry_Potter felt a white-hot, whiplike something hit him across the face and was slammed backwards into the ground. spots of light burst in front of his eyes and for a moment all the breath seemed to have gone from his body, then he heard a rush of wings above him and something enormous obscured the stars: Buckbeak had flown at snape, who staggered backwards as the razor-sharp claws slashed at him. as Harry_Potter raised himself into a sitting position, his head still swimming from its last contact with the ground, he saw snape running as hard as he could, the enormous beast flapping behind him and screeching as Harry_Potter had never heard him screech – Harry_Potter struggled to his feet, looking around groggily for his wand, hoping to give chase again, but even as his fingers fumbled in the grass, discarding twigs, he knew it would be too late, and sure enough, by the time he had located his wand he turned only to see the hippogriff circling the gates: snape had managed to disapparate just beyond the school’s boundaries. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid,’ muttered Harry_Potter, still dazed, looking around. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid?’ he stumbled towards the burning house as an enormous figure emerged from out of the flames carrying Fang on his back. with a cry of thankfulness, Harry_Potter sank to his knees; he was shaking in every limb, his body ached all over and his breath came in painful stabs. ‘yeh all righ’, Harry_Potter? yeh all righ’? speak ter me, Harry_Potter …’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s huge, hairy face was swimming above Harry_Potter, blocking out the stars. Harry_Potter could smell burnt wood and dog hair; he put out a hand and felt Fang’s reassuringly warm and alive body quivering beside him. ‘i’m all right,’ panted Harry_Potter. ‘are you?’ ‘course i am … take more’n that ter finish me.’ Rubeus_Hagrid put his hands under Harry_Potter’s arms and raised him up with such force that Harry_Potter’s feet momentarily left the ground before Rubeus_Hagrid set him upright again. he could see blood trickling down Rubeus_Hagrid’s cheek from a deep cut under one eye, which was swelling rapidly. ‘we should put out your house,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘the charm’s aguamenti …’ ‘knew it was summat like that,’ mumbled Rubeus_Hagrid, and he raised a smouldering, pink flowery umbrella and said, ‘aguamenti!’ a jet of water flew out of the umbrella tip. Harry_Potter raised his wand arm, which felt like lead, and murmured ‘aguamenti’ too: together, he and Rubeus_Hagrid poured water on the house until the last flame was extinguished. ‘’s not too bad,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid Hope_Howellfully a few minutes later, looking at the smoking wreck. ‘nothin’ Albus_Dumbledore won’ be able to put righ’ …’ Harry_Potter felt a searing pain in his stomach at the sound of the name. in the silence and the stillness, horror rose inside him. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid …’ ‘i was bindin’ up a couple o’ bowtruckle legs when i heard ’em comin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid sadly, still staring at his wrecked cabin. ‘they’ll’ve bin burnt ter twigs, poor little things …’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid …’ ‘but what happened, Harry_Potter? i jus’ saw them death eaters runnin’ down from the castle, but what the ruddy hell was snape doin’ with ’em? where’s he gone – was he chasin’ ’em?’ ‘he …’ Harry_Potter cleared his throat; it was dry from panic and the smoke. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, he killed …’ ‘killed?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid loudly, staring down at Harry_Potter. ‘snape killed? what’re yeh on abou’, Harry_Potter?’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘snape killed … Albus_Dumbledore.’ Rubeus_Hagrid simply looked at him, the little of his face that could be seen completely blank, uncomprehending. ‘Albus_Dumbledore wha’, Harry_Potter?’ ‘he’s dead. snape killed him …’ ‘don’ say that,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid roughly. ‘snape kill Albus_Dumbledore – don’ be stupid, Harry_Potter. wha’s made yeh say tha’?’ ‘i saw it happen.’ ‘yeh couldn’ have.’ ‘i saw it, Rubeus_Hagrid.’ Rubeus_Hagrid shook his head; his expression was disbelieving but sympathetic and Harry_Potter knew that Rubeus_Hagrid thought he had sustained a blow to the head, that he was confused, perhaps by the after-effects of a jinx … ‘what musta happened was, Albus_Dumbledore musta told snape ter go with them death eaters,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said confidently. ‘i suppose he’s gotta keep his cover. look, let’s get yeh back up ter the school. come on, Harry_Potter …’ Harry_Potter did not attempt to argue or explain. he was still shaking uncontrollably. Rubeus_Hagrid would find out soon enough, too soon … as they directed their steps back towards the castle, Harry_Potter saw that many of its windows were lit now: he could imagine, clearly, the scenes inside as people moved from room to room, telling each other that death eaters had got in, that the mark was shining over hogwarts, that somebody must have been killed … the oak front doors stood open ahead of them, light flooding out on to the drive and the lawn. slowly, uncertainly, dressing-gowned people were creeping down the steps, looking around nervously for some sign of the death eaters who had fled into the night. Harry_Potter’s eyes, however, were fixed upon the ground at the foot of the tallest tower. he imagined that he could see a black, huddled mass lying in the grass there, though he was really too far away to see anything of the sort. even as he stared wordlessly at the place where he thought Albus_Dumbledore’s body must lie, however, he saw people beginning to move towards it. ‘what’re they all lookin’ at?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, as he and Harry_Potter approached the castle front, Fang keeping as close as he could to their ankles. ‘wha’s tha’, lyin’ on the grass?’ Rubeus_Hagrid added sharply, heading now towards the foot of the astronomy tower, where a small crowd was congregating. ‘see it, Harry_Potter? righ’ at the foot o’ the tower? under where the mark … blimey … yeh don’ think someone got thrown –?’ Rubeus_Hagrid fell silent, the thought apparently too horrible to express aloud. Harry_Potter walked alongside him, feeling the aches and pains in his face and his legs where the various hexes of the last half an hour had hit him, though in an oddly detached way, as though somebody near him was suffering them. what was real and inescapable was the awful pressing feeling in his chest … he and Rubeus_Hagrid moved, dreamlike, through the murmuring crowd to the very front, where the dumbstruck students and teachers had left a gap. Harry_Potter heard Rubeus_Hagrid’s moan of pain and shock, but he did not stop; he walked slowly forwards until he reached the place where Albus_Dumbledore lay, and crouched down beside him. Harry_Potter had known there was no Hope_Howell from the moment that the body-bind curse Albus_Dumbledore had placed upon him lifted, known that it could have happened only because its caster was dead; but there was still no preparation for seeing him here, spread-eagled, broken: the greatest wizard Harry_Potter had ever, or would ever, meet. Albus_Dumbledore’s eyes were closed; but for the strange angle of his arms and legs, he might have been sleeping. Harry_Potter reached out, straightened the half- moon spectacles upon the crooked nose and wiped a trickle of blood from the mouth with his own sleeve. then he gazed down at the wise old face and tried to absorb the enormous and incomprehensible truth: that never again would Albus_Dumbledore speak to him, never again could he help … the crowd murmured behind Harry_Potter. after what seemed like a long time he became aware that he was kneeling upon something hard and looked down. the locket they had managed to steal so many hours before had fallen out of Albus_Dumbledore’s pocket. it had opened, perhaps due to the force with which it had hit the ground. and although he could not feel more shock or horror or sadness than he felt already, Harry_Potter knew, as he picked it up, that there was something wrong … he turned the locket over in his hands. this was neither as large as the locket he remembered seeing in the pensieve, nor were there any markings upon it, no sign of the ornate s that was supposed to be slytherin’s mark. moreover, there was nothing inside but for a scrap of folded parchment wedged tightly into the place where a portrait should have been. automatically, without really thinking about what he was doing, Harry_Potter pulled out the fragment of parchment, opened it, and read by the light of the many wands that had now been lit behind him: to the dark lord i know i will be dead long before you read this but i want you to know that it was i who discovered your secret. i have stolen the real horcrux and intend to desTroy it as soon as i can. i face death in the Hope_Howell that when you meet your match, you will be mortal once more. Regulus_Black Harry_Potter neither knew nor cared what the message meant. only one thing mattered: this was not a horcrux. Albus_Dumbledore had weakened himself by drinking that terrible potion for nothing. Harry_Potter crumpled the parchment in his hand and his eyes burned with tears as behind him Fang began to howl.   