— chapter fifteen — the unbreakable vow snow was swirling against the icy windows once more; christmas was approaching fast. Rubeus_Hagrid had already single-handedly delivered the usual twelve christmas trees for the great hall; garlands of holly and tinsel had been twisted around the banisters of the stairs; everlasting candles glowed from inside the helmets of suits of armour and great bunches of mistletoe had been hung at intervals along the corridors. large groups of girls tended to converge underneath the mistletoe bunches every time Harry_Potter went past, which caused blockages in the corridors; fortunately, however, Harry_Potter’s frequent night-time wanderings had given him an unusually good knowledge of the castle’s secret passageways, so that he was able, without too much difficulty, to navigate mistletoe-free routes between classes. Ronald_Weasley who might once have found the necessity of these detours a cause for jealousy rather than hilarity, simply roared with laughter about it all. although Harry_Potter much preferred this new laughing, joking Ronald_Weasley to the moody, aggressive model he had been enduring for the last few weeks, the improved Ronald_Weasley came at a heavy price. firstly, Harry_Potter had to put up with the frequent presence of Lavender_Brown, who seemed to regard any moment that she was not kissing Ronald_Weasley as a moment wasted; and secondly, Harry_Potter found himself, once more, the best friend of two people who seemed unlikely ever to speak to each other again. Ronald_Weasley whose hands and forearms still bore scratches and cuts from Hermione_Granger’s bird attack, was taking a defensive and resentful tone. ‘she can’t complain,’ he told Harry_Potter. ‘she snogged krum. so she’s found out someone wants to snog me, too. well, it’s a free country. i haven’t done anything wrong.’ Harry_Potter did not answer, but pretended to be absorbed in the book they were supposed to have read before charms the following morning (quintessence: a quest). determined as he was to remain friends with both Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, he was spending a lot of time with his mouth shut tight. ‘i never promised Hermione_Granger anything,’ Ronald_Weasley mumbled. ‘i mean, all right, i    was going to go to slughorn’s christmas party with her, but she never said … just as friends … i’m a free agent …’ Harry_Potter turned a page of quintessence, aware that Ronald_Weasley was watching him. ron’s voice tailed away in mutters, barely audible over the loud crackling of the fire, though Harry_Potter thought he caught the words ‘krum’ and ‘can’t complain’ again. Hermione_Granger’s timetable was so full that Harry_Potter could only talk to her properly in the evenings, when Ronald_Weasley was in any case so tightly wrapped around Lavender_Brown that he did not notice what Harry_Potter was doing. Hermione_Granger refused to sit in the common room while Ronald_Weasley was there, so Harry_Potter generally joined her in the library, which meant that their conversations were held in whispers. ‘he’s at perfect liberty to kiss whomever he likes,’ said Hermione_Granger, while the librarian, madam Irma_Pince, prowled the shelves behind them. ‘i really couldn’t care less.’ she raised her quill and dotted an ‘i’ so ferociously that she punctured a hole in her parchment. Harry_Potter said nothing. he thought his voice might soon vanish from lack of use. he bent a little lower over advanCedric_Diggory potion-making and continued to make notes on everlasting elixirs, occasionally pausing to decipher the prince’s useful additions to libatius borage’s text. ‘and incidentally,’ said Hermione_Granger, after a few moments, ‘you need to be careful.’ ‘for the last time,’ said Harry_Potter, speaking in a slightly hoarse whisper after three-quarters of an hour of silence, ‘i am not giving back this book, i’ve learned more from the Severus_Snape than snape or slughorn have taught me in –’ ‘i’m not talking about your stupid so-called prince,’ said Hermione_Granger, giving his book a nasty look as though it had been rude to her, ‘i’m talking about earlier. i went into the girls’ bathroom just before i came in here and there were about a dozen girls in there, including that Romilda_Vane, trying to decide how to slip you a love potion. they’re all hoping they’re going to get you to take them to slughorn’s party and they all seem to have bought Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s love potions, which i’m afraid to say probably work –’ ‘why didn’t you confiscate them, then?’ demanded Harry_Potter. it seemed extraordinary that Hermione_Granger’s mania for upholding rules could have abandoned her at this crucial juncture. ‘they didn’t have the potions with them in the bathroom,’ said Hermione_Granger scornfully. ‘they were just discussing tactics. as i doubt whether even the Severus_Snape,’ she gave the book another nasty look, ‘could dream up an antidote for a dozen different love potions at once, i’d just invite someone to go with you – that’ll stop all the others thinking they’ve still got a chance. it’s tomorrow night, they’re getting desperate.’ ‘there isn’t anyone i want to invite,’ mumbled Harry_Potter, who was still trying not to think about Ginevra_Weasley any more than he could help, despite the fact that she kept cropping up in his dreams in ways that made him devoutly thankful that Ronald_Weasley could not perform legilimency. ‘well, just be careful what you drink, because Romilda_Vane looked like she meant business,’ said Hermione_Granger grimly. she hitched up the long roll of parchment on which she was writing her arithmancy essay and continued to scratch away with her quill. Harry_Potter watched her with his mind a long way away. ‘hang on a moment,’ he said slowly. ‘i thought filch had banned anything bought at weasleys’ wizard wheezes?’ ‘and when has anyone ever paid attention to what filch has banned?’ asked Hermione_Granger, still concentrating on her essay. ‘but i thought all the owls were being searched? so how come these girls are able to bring love potions into school?’ ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley send them disguised as perfumes and cough potions,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘it’s part of their owl order service.’ ‘you know a lot about it.’ Hermione_Granger gave him the kind of nasty look she had just given his copy of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making. ‘it was all on the back of the bottles they showed Ginevra_Weasley and me in the summer,’ she said coldly. ‘i don’t go around putting potions in people’s drinks … or pretending to, either, which is just as bad …’ ‘yeah, well, never mind that,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘the point is, filch is being fooled, isn’t he? these girls are getting stuff into the school disguised as something else! so why couldn’t malfoy have brought the necklace into the school –?’ ‘oh, Harry_Potter … not that again …’ ‘come on, why not?’ demanded Harry_Potter. ‘look,’ sighed Hermione_Granger, ‘secrecy sensors detect jinxes, curses and concealment charms, don’t they? they’re used to find dark magic and dark objects. they’d have picked up a powerful curse, like the one on that necklace, within seconds. but something that’s just been put in the wrong bottle wouldn’t register – and anyway, love potions aren’t dark or dangerous –’ ‘easy for you to say,’ muttered Harry_Potter, thinking of Romilda_Vane. ‘– so it would be down to filch to realise it wasn’t a cough potion, and he’s not a very good wizard, i doubt he can tell one potion from –’ Hermione_Granger stopped dead; Harry_Potter had heard it too. somebody had moved close behind them among the dark bookshelves. they waited and a moment later the vulture-like countenance of madam Irma_Pince appeared round the corner, her sunken cheeks, her skin like parchment and her long hooked nose illuminated unflatteringly by the lamp she was carrying. ‘the library is now closed,’ she said. ‘mind you return anything you have borrowed to the correct – what have you been doing to that book, you depraved boy?’ ‘it isn’t the library’s, it’s mine!’ said Harry_Potter hastily, snatching his copy of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making off the table as she lunged at it with a clawlike hand. ‘despoiled!’ she hissed. ‘desecrated! befouled!’ ‘it’s just a book that’s been written in!’ said Harry_Potter, tugging it out of her grip. she looked as though she might have a seizure; Hermione_Granger, who had hastily packed her things, grabbed Harry_Potter by the arm and frogmarched him away. ‘she’ll ban you from the library if you’re not careful. why did you have to bring that stupid book?’ ‘it’s not my fault she’s barking mad, Hermione_Granger. or d’you think she overheard you being rude about filch? i’ve always thought there might be something going on between them …’ ‘oh, ha, ha …’ enjoying the fact that they could speak normally again, they made their way along the deserted, lamp-lit corridors back to the common room, arguing about whether or not filch and madam Irma_Pince were secretly in love with each other. ‘baubles,’ said Harry_Potter to the Fat_Lady, this being the new, festive password. ‘same to you,’ said the Fat_Lady with a roguish grin, and she swung forwards to admit them. ‘hi, Harry_Potter!’ said Romilda_Vane, the moment he had climbed through the portrait hole. ‘fancy a gillywater?’ Hermione_Granger gave him a ‘what-did-i-tell-you?’ look over her shoulder. ‘no thanks,’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘i don’t like it much.’ ‘well, take these anyway,’ said Romilda_Vane, thrusting a box into his hands. ‘chocolate cauldrons, they’ve got firewhisky in them. my gran sent them to me, but i don’t like them.’ ‘oh – right – thanks a lot,’ said Harry_Potter, who could not think what else to say. ‘er – i’m just going over here with …’ he hurried off behind Hermione_Granger, his voice tailing away feebly. ‘told you,’ said Hermione_Granger succinctly. ‘sooner you ask someone, sooner they’ll all leave you alone and you can –’ but her face suddenly turned blank; she had just spotted Ronald_Weasley and Lavender_Brown who were entwined in the same armchair. ‘well, goodnight, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, though it was only seven o’clock in the evening, and she left for the girls’ dormitory without another word. Harry_Potter went to bed comforting himself that there was only one more day of lessons to struggle through, plus slughorn’s party, after which he and Ronald_Weasley would depart together for the burrow. it now seemed impossible that Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger would make up with each other before the holidays began, but perhaps, somehow, the break would give them time to calm down, think better of their behaviour … but his Hope_Howells were not high, and they sank still lower after enduring a transfiguration lesson with them both next day. they had just embarked upon the immensely difficult topic of human transfiguration; working in front of mirrors, they were supposed to be changing the colour of their own eyebrows. Hermione_Granger laughed unkindly at ron’s disastrous first attempt, during which he somehow managed to give himself a spectacular handlebar moustache; Ronald_Weasley retaliated by doing a cruel but accurate impression of Hermione_Granger jumping up and down in her seat every time professor Minerva_McGonagall asked a question, which Lavender_Brown and Parvati_Patil found deeply amusing and which reduCedric_Diggory Hermione_Granger to the verge of tears again. she raCedric_Diggory out of the classroom on the bell, leaving half her things behind; Harry_Potter, deciding that her need was greater than ron’s just then, scooped up her remaining possessions and followed her. he finally tracked her down as she emerged from a girls’ bathroom on the floor below. she was accompanied by Luna_Lovegood, who was patting her vaguely on the back. ‘oh, hello, Harry_Potter,’ said Luna_Lovegood. ‘did you know one of your eyebrows is bright yellow?’ ‘hi, Luna_Lovegood. Hermione_Granger, you left your stuff …’ he held out her books. ‘oh, yes,’ said Hermione_Granger in a choked voice, taking her things and turning away quickly to hide the fact that she was wiping her eyes on her pencil case. ‘thank you, Harry_Potter. well, i’d better get going …’ and she hurried off, without giving Harry_Potter any time to offer words of comfort, though admittedly he could not think of any. ‘she’s a bit upset,’ said Luna_Lovegood. ‘i thought at first it was Myrtle_Warren in there, but it turned out to be Hermione_Granger. she said something about that Ronald_Weasley weasley …’ ‘yeah, they’ve had a row,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he says very funny things sometimes, doesn’t he?’ said Luna_Lovegood, as they set off down the corridor together. ‘but he can be a bit unkind. i notiCedric_Diggory that last year.’ ‘i s’pose,’ said Harry_Potter. Luna_Lovegood was demonstrating her usual knack of speaking uncomfortable truths; he had never met anyone quite like her. ‘so have you had a good term?’ ‘oh, it’s been all right,’ said Luna_Lovegood. ‘a bit lonely without the da. Ginevra_Weasley’s been nice, though. she stopped two boys in our transfiguration class calling me “loony” the other day –’ ‘how would you like to come to slughorn’s party with me tonight?’ the words were out of Harry_Potter’s mouth before he could stop them; he heard himself say them as though it were a stranger speaking. Luna_Lovegood turned her protuberant eyes upon him in surprise. ‘slughorn’s party? with you?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘we’re supposed to bring guests, so i thought you might like … i mean …’ he was keen to make his intentions perfectly clear. ‘i mean, just as friends, you know. but if you don’t want to …’ he was already half-hoping that she didn’t want to. ‘oh, no, i’d love to go with you as friends!’ said Luna_Lovegood, beaming as he had never seen her beam before. ‘nobody’s ever asked me to a party before, as a friend! is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? should i do mine, too?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter firmly, ‘that was a mistake, i’ll get Hermione_Granger to put it right for me. so, i’ll meet you in the entrance hall at eight o’clock, then.’ ‘aha!’ screamed a voice from overhead and both of them jumped; unnotiCedric_Diggory by either of them, they had just passed right underneath Peeves, who was hanging upside-down from a chandelier and grinning maliciously at them. ‘potty asked loony to go to the party! potty lurves loony! potty luuuuurves looooooony!’ and he zoomed away, cackling and shrieking, ‘potty loves loony!’ ‘nice to keep these things private,’ said Harry_Potter. and sure enough, in no time at all the whole school seemed to know that Harry_Potter was taking Luna_Lovegood to slughorn’s party. ‘you could’ve taken anyone!’ said Ronald_Weasley in disbelief over dinner. ‘anyone! and you chose Luna_Lovegood?’ ‘don’t call her that, Ronald_Weasley’ snapped Ginevra_Weasley, pausing behind Harry_Potter on her way to join friends. ‘i’m really glad you’re taking her, Harry_Potter, she’s so excited.’ and she moved on down the table to sit with Dean_Thomas. Harry_Potter tried to feel pleased that Ginevra_Weasley was glad he was taking Luna_Lovegood to the party, but could not quite manage it. a long way along the table, Hermione_Granger was sitting alone, playing with her stew. Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory Ronald_Weasley looking at her furtively. ‘you could say sorry,’ suggested Harry_Potter bluntly. ‘what, and get attacked by another flock of canaries?’ muttered Ronald_Weasley ‘what did you have to imitate her for?’ ‘she laughed at my moustache!’ ‘so did i, it was the stupidest thing i’ve ever seen.’ but Ronald_Weasley did not seem to have heard; Lavender_Brown had just arrived with Parvati_Patil. squeezing herself in between Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley Lavender_Brown flung her arms around ron’s neck. ‘hi, Harry_Potter,’ said Parvati_Patil who, like him, looked faintly embarrassed and bored by the behaviour of their two friends. ‘hi,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘how’re you? you’re staying at hogwarts, then? i heard your parents wanted you to leave.’ ‘i managed to talk them out of it for the time being,’ said Parvati_Patil. ‘that Katie_Bell thing really freaked them out, but as there hasn’t been anything since … oh, hi, Hermione_Granger!’ Parvati_Patil positively beamed. Harry_Potter could tell that she was feeling guilty for having laughed at Hermione_Granger in transfiguration. he looked around and saw that Hermione_Granger was beaming back, if possible even more brightly. girls were very strange sometimes. ‘hi, Parvati_Patil!’ said Hermione_Granger, ignoring Ronald_Weasley and Lavender_Brown completely. ‘are you going to slughorn’s party tonight?’ ‘no invite,’ said Parvati_Patil gloomily. ‘i’d love to go, though, it sounds like it’s going to be really good … you’re going, aren’t you?’ ‘yes, i’m meeting Cormac_McLaggen at eight and we’re –’ there was a noise like a plunger being withdrawn from a blocked sink and Ronald_Weasley surfaCedric_Diggory. Hermione_Granger acted as though she had not seen or heard anything. ‘– we’re going up to the party together.’ ‘Cormac_McLaggen?’ said Parvati_Patil. ‘Cormac_McLaggen, you mean?’ ‘that’s right,’ said Hermione_Granger sweetly. ‘the one who almost,’ she put a great deal of emphasis on the word, ‘became gryffindor keeper.’ ‘are you going out with him, then?’ asked Parvati_Patil, wide-eyed. ‘oh – yes – didn’t you know?’ said Hermione_Granger, with a most un-Hermione_Granger- ish giggle. ‘no!’ said Parvati_Patil, looking positively agog at this piece of gossip. ‘wow, you like your quidditch players, don’t you? first krum, then mclaggen …’ ‘i like really good quidditch players,’ Hermione_Granger corrected her, still smiling. ‘well, see you … got to go and get ready for the party …’ she left. at once Lavender_Brown and Parvati_Patil put their heads together to discuss this new development, with everything they had ever heard about mclaggen, and all they had ever guessed about Hermione_Granger. Ronald_Weasley looked strangely blank and said nothing. Harry_Potter was left to ponder in silence the depths to which girls would sink to get revenge. when he arrived in the entrance hall at eight o’clock that night, he found an unusually large number of girls lurking there, all of whom seemed to be staring at him resentfully as he approached Luna_Lovegood. she was wearing a set of spangled silver robes that was attracting a certain amount of giggling from the onlookers, but otherwise she looked quite nice. Harry_Potter was glad, in any case, that she had left off her radish earrings, her butterbeer-cork necklace and her spectrespecs. ‘hi,’ he said. ‘shall we get going, then?’ ‘oh, yes,’ she said happily. ‘where is the party?’ ‘slughorn’s office,’ said Harry_Potter, leading her up the marble staircase away from all the staring and muttering. ‘did you hear, there’s supposed to be a vampire coming?’ ‘Rufus_Scrimgeour?’ asked Luna_Lovegood. ‘i – what?’ said Harry_Potter, disconcerted. ‘you mean the minister for magic?’ ‘yes, he’s a vampire,’ said Luna_Lovegood matter-of-factly. ‘father wrote a very long article about it when scrimgeour first took over from Cornelius_Fudge, but he was forCedric_Diggory not to publish by somebody from the ministry. obviously, they didn’t want the truth to get out!’ Harry_Potter, who thought it most unlikely that Rufus_Scrimgeour was a vampire, but who was used to Luna_Lovegood repeating her father’s bizarre views as though they were fact, did not reply; they were already approaching slughorn’s office and the sounds of laughter, music and loud conversation were growing louder with every step they took. whether it had been built that way, or because he had used magical trickery to make it so, slughorn’s office was much larger than the usual teacher’s study. the ceiling and walls had been draped with emerald, crimson and gold hangings, so that it looked as though they were all inside a vast tent. the room was crowded and stuffy and bathed in the red light cast by an ornate golden lamp dangling from the centre of the ceiling in which real fairies were fluttering, each a brilliant speck of light. loud singing accompanied by what sounded like mandolins issued from a distant corner; a haze of pipe smoke hung over several elderly warlocks deep in conversation, and a number of house-elves were negotiating their way squeakily through the forest of knees, obscured by the heavy silver platters of food they were bearing, so that they looked like little roving tables. ‘Harry_Potter, m’boy!’ boomed slughorn, almost as soon as Harry_Potter and Luna_Lovegood had squeezed in through the door. ‘come in, come in, so many people i’d like you to meet!’ slughorn was wearing a tasselled velvet hat to match his smoking Jack_Sloperet. gripping Harry_Potter’s arm so tightly he might have been hoping to disapparate with him, slughorn led him purposefully into the party; Harry_Potter seized Luna_Lovegood’s hand and dragged her along with him. ‘Harry_Potter, i’d like you to meet Eldred_Worple, an old student of mine, author of blood brothers: my life amongst the vampires – and, of course, his friend Sanguini.’ worple, who was a small, bespectacled man, grabbed Harry_Potter’s hand and shook it enthusiastically; the vampire Sanguini, who was tall and emaciated with dark shadows under his eyes, merely nodded. he looked rather bored. a gaggle of girls was standing close to him, looking curious and excited. ‘Harry_Potter, i am simply delighted!’ said worple, peering short-sightedly up into Harry_Potter’s face. ‘i was saying to professor slughorn only the other day, where is the biography of Harry_Potter for which we have all been waiting?’ ‘er,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘were you?’ ‘just as modest as horace described!’ said worple. ‘but seriously –’ his manner changed; it became suddenly businesslike, ‘i would be delighted to write it myself – people are craving to know more about you, dear boy, craving! if you were prepared to grant me a few interviews, say in four- or five-hour sessions, why, we could have the book finished within months. and all with very little effort on your part, i assure you – ask Sanguini here if it isn’t quite – Sanguini, stay here!’ added worple, suddenly stern, for the vampire had been edging towards the nearby group of girls, a rather hungry look in his eye. ‘here, have a pasty,’ said worple, seizing one from a passing Winky and stuffing it into Sanguini’s hand before turning his attention back to Harry_Potter. ‘my dear boy, the gold you could make, you have no idea –’ ‘i’m definitely not interested,’ said Harry_Potter firmly, ‘and i’ve just seen a friend of mine, sorry.’ he pulled Luna_Lovegood after him into the crowd; he had indeed just seen a long mane of brown hair disappear between what looked like two members of the Myron_Wagtail and Donaghan_Tremlett. ‘Hermione_Granger! Hermione_Granger!’ ‘Harry_Potter! there you are, thank goodness! hi, Luna_Lovegood!’ ‘what’s happened to you?’ asked Harry_Potter, for Hermione_Granger looked distinctly dishevelled, rather as though she had just fought her way out of a thicket of devil’s snare. ‘oh, i’ve just escaped – i mean, i’ve just left Cormac_McLaggen,’ she said. ‘under the mistletoe,’ she added in explanation, as Harry_Potter continued to look questioningly at her. ‘serves you right for coming with him,’ he told her severely. ‘i thought he’d annoy Ronald_Weasley most,’ said Hermione_Granger dispassionately. ‘i debated for a while about Zacharias_Smith, but i thought, on the whole –’ ‘you considered smith?’ said Harry_Potter, revolted. ‘yes, i did, and i’m starting to wish i’d chosen him, mclaggen makes Grawp look a gentleman. let’s go this way, we’ll be able to see him coming, he’s so tall …’ the three of them made their way over to the other side of the room, scooping up goblets of mead on the way, realising too late that professor Sybill_Trelawney was standing there alone. ‘hello,’ said Luna_Lovegood politely to professor Sybill_Trelawney. ‘good evening, my dear,’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney, focusing upon Luna_Lovegood with some difficulty. Harry_Potter could smell Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning sherry again. ‘i haven’t seen you in my classes lately …’ ‘no, i’ve got Firenze this year,’ said Luna_Lovegood. ‘oh, of course,’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney with an angry, drunken titter. ‘or Firenze, as i prefer to think of him. you would have thought, would you not, that now i am returned to the school professor Albus_Dumbledore might have got rid of the horse? but no … we share classes … it’s an insult, Frank_Longbottomly, an insult. do you know …’ professor Sybill_Trelawney seemed too tipsy to have recognised Harry_Potter. under cover of her furious criticisms of Firenze, Harry_Potter drew closer to Hermione_Granger and said, ‘let’s get something straight. are you planning to tell Ronald_Weasley that you interfered at keeper tryouts?’ Hermione_Granger raised her eyebrows. ‘do you really think i’d stoop that low?’ Harry_Potter looked at her shrewdly. ‘Hermione_Granger, if you can ask out mclaggen –’ ‘there’s a difference,’ said Hermione_Granger with dignity. ‘i’ve got no plans to tell Ronald_Weasley anything about what might, or might not, have happened at keeper tryouts.’ ‘good,’ said Harry_Potter fervently. ‘because he’ll just fall apart again and we’ll lose the next match –’ ‘quidditch!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. ‘is that all boys care about? Cormac_McLaggen hasn’t asked me one single question about myself, no, i’ve just been treated to a hundred great saves made by Cormac_McLaggen non-stop, ever since – oh no, here he comes!’ she moved so fast it was as though she had disapparated; one moment she was there, the next she had squeezed between two guffawing witches and vanished. ‘seen Hermione_Granger?’ asked mclaggen, forcing his way through the throng a minute later. ‘no, sorry,’ said Harry_Potter, and he turned quickly to join in Luna_Lovegood’s conversation, forgetting for a split second to whom she was talking. ‘Harry_Potter!’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney in deep, vibrant tones, noticing him for the first time. ‘oh, hello,’ said Harry_Potter unenthusiastically. ‘my dear boy!’ she said in a very carrying whisper. ‘the rumours! the stories! Harry_Potter! of course, i have known for a very long time … the omens were never good, Harry_Potter … but why have you not returned to divination? for you, of all people, the subject is of the utmost importance!’ ‘ah, Sybill_Trelawney, we all think our subject’s most important!’ said a loud voice, and slughorn appeared at professor Sybill_Trelawney’s other side, his face very red, his velvet hat a little askew, a glass of mead in one hand and an enormous mince pie in the other. ‘but i don’t think i’ve ever known such a natural at potions!’ said slughorn, regarding Harry_Potter with a fond, if bloodshot, eye. ‘instinctive, you know – like his mother! i’ve only ever taught a few with this kind of ability, i can tell you that, Sybill_Trelawney – why, even Severus_Snape –’ and to Harry_Potter’s horror, slughorn threw out an arm and seemed to scoop snape out of thin air towards them. ‘stop skulking and come and join us, Severus_Snape!’ hiccoughed slughorn happily. ‘i was just talking about Harry_Potter’s exceptional potion-making! some credit must go to you, of course, you taught him for five years!’ trapped, with slughorn’s arm around his shoulders, snape looked down his hooked nose at Harry_Potter, his black eyes narrowed. ‘funny, i never had the impression that i managed to teach potter anything at all.’ ‘well, then, it’s natural ability!’ shouted slughorn. ‘you should have seen what he gave me, first lesson, the draught of living death – never had a student produce finer on a first attempt, i don’t think even you, Severus_Snape –’ ‘really?’ said snape quietly, his eyes still boring into Harry_Potter, who felt a certain disquiet. the last thing he wanted was for snape to start investigating the source of his new-found brilliance at potions. ‘remind me what other subjects you’re taking, Harry_Potter?’ asked slughorn. ‘defence against the dark arts, charms, transfiguration, herbology …’ ‘all the subjects required, in short, for an auror,’ said snape, with the faintest sneer. ‘yeah, well, that’s what i’d like to be,’ said Harry_Potter defiantly. ‘and a great one you’ll make, too!’ boomed slughorn. ‘i don’t think you should be an auror, Harry_Potter,’ said Luna_Lovegood unexpectedly. everybody looked at her. ‘the aurors are part of the rotFang conspiracy, i thought everyone knew that. they’re working from within to bring down the ministry of magic using a combination of dark magic and gum disease.’ Harry_Potter inhaled half his mead up his nose as he started to laugh. really, it had been worth bringing Luna_Lovegood just for this. emerging from his goblet, coughing, sopping wet but still grinning, he saw something calculated to raise his spirits even higher: Draco_Malfoy being dragged by the ear towards them by Argus_Filch. ‘professor slughorn,’ wheezed filch, his jowls aquiver and the maniacal light of mischief-detection in his bulging eyes, ‘i discovered this boy lurking in an upstairs corridor. he claims to have been invited to your party and to have been delayed in setting out. did you issue him with an invitation?’ malfoy pulled himself free of filch’s grip, looking furious. ‘all right, i wasn’t invited!’ he said angrily. ‘i was trying to gatecrash, happy?’ ‘no, i’m not!’ said filch, a statement at complete odds with the glee on his face. ‘you’re in trouble, you are! didn’t the headmaster say that night-time prowling’s out, unless you’ve got permission, didn’t he, eh?’ ‘that’s all right, Argus_Filch, that’s all right,’ said slughorn, waving a hand. ‘it’s christmas, and it’s not a crime to want to come to a party. just this once, we’ll forget any punishment; you may stay, Draco_Malfoy.’ filch’s expression of outraged disappointment was perfectly predictable; but why, Harry_Potter wondered, watching him, did malfoy look almost equally unhappy? and why was snape looking at malfoy as though both angry and … was it possible? … a little afraid? but almost before Harry_Potter had registered what he had seen, filch had turned and shuffled away, muttering under his breath; malfoy had composed his face into a smile and was thanking slughorn for his generosity, and snape’s face was smoothly inscrutable again. ‘it’s nothing, nothing,’ said slughorn, waving away malfoy’s thanks. ‘i did know your grandfather, after all …’ ‘he always spoke very highly of you, sir,’ said malfoy quickly. ‘said you were the best potion-maker he’d ever known …’ Harry_Potter stared at malfoy. it was not the sucking up that intrigued him; he had watched malfoy do that to snape for a long time. it was the fact that malfoy did, after all, look a little ill. this was the first time he had seen malfoy close up for ages; he now saw that malfoy had dark shadows under his eyes and a distinctly greyish tinge to his skin. ‘i’d like a word with you, Draco_Malfoy,’ said snape suddenly. ‘oh, now, Severus_Snape,’ said slughorn, hiccoughing again, ‘it’s christmas, don’t be too hard –’ ‘i’m his head of house, and i shall decide how hard, or otherwise, to be,’ said snape curtly. ‘follow me, Draco_Malfoy.’ they left, snape leading the way, malfoy looking resentful. Harry_Potter stood there for a moment, irresolute, then said, ‘i’ll be back in a bit, Luna_Lovegood – er – bathroom.’ ‘all right,’ she said cheerfully, and he thought he heard her, as he hurried off into the crowd, resume the subject of the rotFang conspiracy with professor Sybill_Trelawney, who seemed sincerely interested. it was easy, once out of the party, to pull his invisibility cloak out of his pocket and throw it over himself, for the corridor was quite deserted. what was more difficult was finding snape and malfoy. Harry_Potter ran down the corridor, the noise of his feet masked by the music and loud talk still issuing from slughorn’s office behind him. perhaps snape had taken malfoy to his office in the Mundungus_Fletchereons … or perhaps he was escorting him back to the slytherin common room … but Harry_Potter pressed his ear against door after door as he dashed down the corridor until, with a great jolt of excitement, he crouched down to the keyhole of the last classroom in the corridor and heard voices. ‘… cannot afford mistakes, Draco_Malfoy, because if you are expelled –’ ‘i didn’t have anything to do with it, all right?’ ‘i Hope_Howell you are telling the truth, because it was both clumsy and foolish. already you are suspected of having a hand in it.’ ‘who suspects me?’ said malfoy angrily. ‘for the last time, i didn’t do it, ok? that bell girl must’ve had an enemy no one knows about – don’t look at me like that! i know what you’re doing, i’m not stupid, but it won’t work – i can stop you!’ there was a pause and then snape said quietly, ‘ah … aunt Bellatrix_Lestrange has been teaching you occlumency, i see. what thoughts are you trying to conceal from your master, Draco_Malfoy?’ ‘i’m not trying to conceal anything from him, i just don’t want you butting in!’ Harry_Potter pressed his ear still more closely against the keyhole … what had happened to make malfoy speak to snape like this, snape, towards whom he had always shown respect, even liking? ‘so that is why you have been avoiding me this term? you have feared my interference? you realise that, had anybody else failed to come to my office when i had told them repeatedly to be there, Draco_Malfoy –’ ‘so put me in detention! report me to Albus_Dumbledore!’ jeered malfoy. there was another pause. then snape said, ‘you know perfectly well that i do not wish to do either of those things.’ ‘you’d better stop telling me to come to your office, then!’ ‘listen to me,’ said snape, his voice so low now that Harry_Potter had to push his ear very hard against the keyhole to hear. ‘i am trying to help you. i swore to your mother i would protect you. i made the unbreakable vow, Draco_Malfoy –’ ‘looks like you’ll have to break it, then, because i don’t need your protection! it’s my job, he gave it to me and i’m doing it. i’ve got a plan and it’s going to work, it’s just taking a bit longer than i thought it would!’ ‘what is your plan?’ ‘it’s none of your business!’ ‘if you tell me what you are trying to do, i can assist you –’ ‘i’ve got all the assistance i need, thanks, i’m not alone!’ ‘you were certainly alone tonight, which was foolish in the extreme, wandering the corridors without lookouts or backup. these are elementary mistakes –’ ‘i would’ve had crabbe and Goyle with me if you hadn’t put them in detention!’ ‘keep your voice down!’ spat snape, for malfoy’s voice had risen excitedly. ‘if your friends crabbe and Goyle intend to pass their defence against the dark arts o.w.l. this time around, they will need to work a little harder than they are doing at pres—’ ‘what does it matter?’ said malfoy. ‘defence against the dark arts – it’s all just a joke, isn’t it, an act? like any of us need protecting against the dark arts –’ ‘it is an act that is crucial to success, Draco_Malfoy!’ said snape. ‘where do you think i would have been all these years, if i had not known how to act? now listen to me! you are being incautious, wandering around at night, getting yourself caught, and if you are placing your reliance on assistants like crabbe and Goyle –’ ‘they’re not the only ones, i’ve got other people on my side, better people!’ ‘then why not confide in me, and i can –’ ‘i know what you’re up to! you want to steal my glory!’ there was another pause, then snape said coldly, ‘you are speaking like a child. i quite understand that your father’s capture and imprisonment has upset you, but –’ Harry_Potter had barely a second’s warning; he heard malfoy’s footsteps on the other side of the door and flung himself out of the way just as it burst open; malfoy was striding away down the corridor, past the open door of slughorn’s office, round the distant corner and out of sight. hardly daring to breathe, Harry_Potter remained crouched down as snape emerged slowly from the classroom. his expression unfathomable, he returned to the party. Harry_Potter remained on the floor, hidden beneath the cloak, his mind racing. 