— chapter seven — the slug club Harry_Potter spent a lot of the last week of the holidays pondering the meaning of malfoy’s behaviour in knockturn alley. what disturbed him most was the satisfied look on malfoy’s face as he had left the shop. nothing that made malfoy look that happy could be good news. to his slight annoyance, however, neither Ronald_Weasley nor Hermione_Granger seemed quite as curious about malfoy’s activities as he was; or at least, they seemed to get bored of discussing it after a few days. ‘yes, i’ve already agreed it was fishy, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger a little impatiently. she was sitting on the window-sill in Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s room with her feet up on one of the cardboard boxes and had only grudgingly looked up from her new copy of advanCedric_Diggory rune translation. ‘but haven’t we agreed there could be a lot of explanations?’ ‘maybe he’s broken his hand of glory,’ said Ronald_Weasley vaguely, as he attempted to straighten his broomstick’s bent tail twigs. ‘remember that shrivelled-up arm malfoy had?’ ‘but what about when he said “don’t forget to keep that one safe”?’ asked Harry_Potter for the umpteenth time. ‘that sounded to me like Borgin’s got another one of the broken objects, and malfoy wants both.’ ‘you reckon?’ said Ronald_Weasley now trying to scrape some dirt off his broom handle. ‘yeah, i do,’ said Harry_Potter. when neither Ronald_Weasley nor Hermione_Granger answered, he said, ‘malfoy’s father’s in azkaban. don’t you think malfoy’d like revenge?’ Ronald_Weasley looked up, blinking. ‘malfoy, revenge? what can he do about it?’ ‘that’s my point, i don’t know!’ said Harry_Potter, frustrated. ‘but he’s up to something and i think we should take it seriously. his father’s a death eater and –’ Harry_Potter broke off, his eyes fixed on the window behind Hermione_Granger, his mouth open. a startling thought had just occurred to him.    ‘Harry_Potter?’ said Hermione_Granger in an anxious voice. ‘what’s wrong?’ ‘your scar’s not hurting again, is it?’ asked Ronald_Weasley nervously. ‘he’s a death eater,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘he’s replaCedric_Diggory his father as a death eater!’ there was a silence, then Ronald_Weasley erupted in laughter. ‘malfoy? he’s sixteen, Harry_Potter! you think Tom_Riddle would let malfoy join?’ ‘it seems very unlikely, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, in a repressive sort of voice. ‘what makes you think –?’ ‘in madam Malkin’s. she didn’t touch him, but he yelled and jerked his arm away from her when she went to roll up his sleeve. it was his left arm. he’s been branded with the dark mark.’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked at each other. ‘well …’ said Ronald_Weasley sounding thoroughly unconvinCedric_Diggory. ‘i think he just wanted to get out of there, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘he showed Borgin something we couldn’t see,’ Harry_Potter pressed on stubbornly. ‘something that seriously scared Borgin. it was the mark, i know it – he was showing Borgin who he was dealing with, you saw how seriously Borgin took him!’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger exchanged another look. ‘i’m not sure, Harry_Potter …’ ‘yeah, i still don’t reckon Tom_Riddle would let malfoy join …’ annoyed, but absolutely convinCedric_Diggory he was right, Harry_Potter snatched up a pile of filthy quidditch robes and left the room; Molly_Weasley had been urging them for days not to leave their washing and packing until the last moment. on the landing he bumped into Ginevra_Weasley, who was returning to her room carrying a pile of freshly laundered clothes. ‘i wouldn’t go in the kitchen just now,’ she warned him. ‘there’s a lot of Fleur_Delacour around.’ ‘i’ll be careful not to slip in it,’ smiled Harry_Potter. sure enough, when he entered the kitchen it was to find Fleur_Delacour sitting at the kitchen table, in full flow about plans for her wedding to bill, while Molly_Weasley kept watch over a pile of self-peeling sprouts, looking bad-tempered. ‘… William_Weasley and i ’ave almost decided on only two bridesmaids, Ginevra_Weasley and Gabrielle_Delacour will look very sweet togezzer. i am theenking of dressing zem in pale gold – pink would of course be ’orrible with Ginevra_Weasley’s ’air –’ ‘ah, Harry_Potter!’ said Molly_Weasley loudly, cutting across Fleur_Delacour’s monologue. ‘good, i wanted to explain about the security arrangements for the journey to hogwarts tomorrow. we’ve got ministry cars again, and there will be aurors waiting at the station –’ ‘is Nymphadora_Tonks going to be there?’ asked Harry_Potter, handing over his quidditch things. ‘no, i don’t think so, she’s been stationed somewhere else from what Arthur_Weasley said.’ ‘she ’as let ’erself go, zat Nymphadora_Tonks,’ mused Fleur_Delacour, examining her own stunning reflection in the back of a teaspoon. ‘a big mistake, if you ask –’ ‘yes, thank you,’ said Molly_Weasley tartly, cutting across Fleur_Delacour again. ‘you’d better get on, Harry_Potter, i want the trunks ready tonight, if possible, so we don’t have the usual last-minute scramble.’ and in fact, their departure the following morning was smoother than usual. the ministry cars glided up to the front of the burrow to find them waiting: trunks packed, Hermione_Granger’s cat, Crookshanks, safely enclosed in his travelling basket, and Hedwig, ron’s owl Pigwidgeon, and Ginevra_Weasley’s new purple pygmy puff, Arnold, in cages. ‘au revoir, ’arry,’ said Fleur_Delacour throatily, kissing him goodbye. Ronald_Weasley hurried forwards, looking Hope_Howellful, but Ginevra_Weasley stuck out her foot and Ronald_Weasley fell, sprawling in the dust at Fleur_Delacour’s feet. furious, red-faCedric_Diggory and dirt-spattered, he hurried into the car without saying goodbye. there was no cheerful Rubeus_Hagrid waiting for them at king’s cross station. instead, two grim-faCedric_Diggory, bearded aurors in dark muggle suits moved forwards the moment the cars stopped and, flanking the party, marched them into the station without speaking. ‘quick, quick, through the barrier,’ said Molly_Weasley, who seemed a little flustered by this austere efficiency. ‘Harry_Potter had better go first, with –’ she looked enquiringly at one of the aurors, who nodded briefly, seized Harry_Potter’s upper arm and attempted to steer him towards the barrier between platforms nine and ten. ‘i can walk, thanks,’ said Harry_Potter irRita_Skeeterbly, jerking his arm out of the auror’s grip. he pushed his trolley directly at the solid barrier, ignoring his silent companion, and found himself, a second later, standing on platform nine and three-quarters, where the scarlet hogwarts express stood belching steam over the crowd. Hermione_Granger and the weasleys joined him within seconds. without waiting to consult his grim-faCedric_Diggory auror, Harry_Potter motioned to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to follow him up the platform, looking for an empty compartment. ‘we can’t, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking apologetic. ‘ron and i’ve got to go to the prefect carriage first and then patrol the corridors for a bit.’ ‘oh yeah, i forgot,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you’d better get straight on the train, all of you, you’ve only got a few minutes to go,’ said Molly_Weasley, consulting her watch. ‘well, have a lovely term, Ronald_Weasley …’ ‘Arthur_Weasley, can i have a quick word?’ said Harry_Potter, making up his mind on the spur of the moment. ‘of course,’ said Arthur_Weasley, who looked slightly surprised, but followed Harry_Potter out of earshot of the others nevertheless. Harry_Potter had thought it through carefully and come to the conclusion that, if he were to tell anyone, Arthur_Weasley would be the right person; firstly, because he worked at the ministry and was therefore in the best position to make further investigations, and secondly, because he thought that there was not too much risk of Arthur_Weasley exploding with anger. he could see Molly_Weasley and the grim-faCedric_Diggory auror casting the pair of them suspicious looks as they moved away. ‘when we were in diagon alley –’ Harry_Potter began, but Arthur_Weasley forestalled him with a grimace. ‘am i about to discover where you, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger disappeared to while you were supposed to be in the back room of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s shop?’ ‘how did you –?’ ‘Harry_Potter, please. you’re talking to the man who raised Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley.’ ‘er … yeah, all right, we weren’t in the back room.’ ‘very well, then, let’s hear the worst.’ ‘well, we followed Draco_Malfoy. we used my invisibility cloak.’ ‘did you have any particular reason for doing so, or was it a mere whim?’ ‘because i thought malfoy was up to something,’ said Harry_Potter, disregarding Arthur_Weasley’s look of mingled exasperation and amusement. ‘he’d given his mother the slip and i wanted to know why.’ ‘of course you did,’ said Arthur_Weasley, sounding resigned. ‘well? did you find out why?’ ‘he went into Borgin and burkes,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘and started bullying the bloke in there, Borgin, to help him fix something. and he said he wanted Borgin to keep something else for him. he made it sound like it was the same kind of thing that needed fixing. like they were a pair. and …’ Harry_Potter took a deep breath. ‘there’s something else. we saw malfoy jump about a mile when madam Malkin tried to touch his left arm. i think he’s been branded with the dark mark. i think he’s replaCedric_Diggory his father as a death eater.’ Arthur_Weasley looked taken aback. after a moment he said, ‘Harry_Potter, i doubt whether Tom_Riddle would allow a sixteen-year-old –’ ‘does anyone really know what Tom_Riddle would or wouldn’t do?’ asked Harry_Potter angrily. ‘Arthur_Weasley, i’m sorry, but isn’t it worth investigating? if malfoy wants something fixing, and he needs to threaten Borgin to get it done, it’s probably something dark or dangerous, isn’t it?’ ‘i doubt it, to be honest, Harry_Potter,’ said Arthur_Weasley slowly. ‘you see, when Lucius_Malfoy was arrested, we raided his house. we took away everything that might have been dangerous.’ ‘i think you missed something,’ said Harry_Potter stubbornly. ‘well, maybe,’ said Arthur_Weasley, but Harry_Potter could tell that Arthur_Weasley was humouring him. there was a whistle behind them; nearly everyone had boarded the train and the doors were closing. ‘you’d better hurry,’ said Arthur_Weasley, as Molly_Weasley cried, ‘Harry_Potter, quickly!’ he hurried forwards and mr and Molly_Weasley helped him load his trunk on to the train. ‘now, dear, you’re coming to us for christmas, it’s all fixed with Albus_Dumbledore, so we’ll see you quite soon,’ said Molly_Weasley through the window, as Harry_Potter slammed the door shut behind him and the train began to move. ‘you make sure you look after yourself and –’ the train was gathering speed. ‘– be good and –’ she was jogging to keep up now. ‘– stay safe!’ Harry_Potter waved until the train had turned a corner and mr and Molly_Weasley were lost from view, then turned to see where the others had got to. he supposed Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were cloistered in the prefect carriage, but Ginevra_Weasley was a little way along the corridor, chatting to some friends. he made his way towards her, dragging his trunk. people stared shamelessly as he approached. they even pressed their faces against the windows of their compartments to get a look at him. he had expected an upswing in the amount of gaping and gawping he would have to endure this term after all the ‘chosen one’ rumours in the daily prophet, but he did not enjoy the sensation of standing in a very bright spotlight. he tapped Ginevra_Weasley on the shoulder. ‘fancy trying to find a compartment?’ ‘i can’t, Harry_Potter, i said i’d meet Dean_Thomas,’ said Ginevra_Weasley brightly. ‘see you later.’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter. he felt a strange twinge of annoyance as she walked away, her long red hair dancing behind her. he had become so used to her presence over the summer that he had almost forgotten that Ginevra_Weasley did not hang around with him, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger while at school. then he blinked and looked around: he was surrounded by mesmerised girls. ‘hi, Harry_Potter!’ said a familiar voice from behind him. ‘Neville_Longbottom!’ said Harry_Potter in relief, turning to see a round-faCedric_Diggory boy struggling towards him. ‘hello, Harry_Potter,’ said a girl with long hair and large, misty eyes, who was just behind Neville_Longbottom. ‘Luna_Lovegood, hi, how are you?’ ‘very well, thank you,’ said Luna_Lovegood. she was clutching a magazine to her chest; large letters on the front announCedric_Diggory that there was a pair of free spectrespecs inside. ‘the quibbler still going strong, then?’ asked Harry_Potter, who felt a certain fondness for the magazine, having given it an exclusive interview the previous year. ‘oh yes, circulation’s well up,’ said Luna_Lovegood happily. ‘let’s find seats,’ said Harry_Potter, and the three of them set off along the train through hordes of silently staring students. at last they found an empty compartment and Harry_Potter hurried inside gratefully. ‘they’re even staring at us,’ said Neville_Longbottom, indicating himself and Luna_Lovegood, ‘because we’re with you!’ ‘they’re staring at you because you were at the ministry, too,’ said Harry_Potter, as he hoisted his trunk into the luggage rack. ‘our little adventure there was all over the daily prophet, you must’ve seen it.’ ‘yes, i thought gran would be angry about all the publicity,’ said Neville_Longbottom, ‘but she was really pleased. says i’m starting to live up to my dad at long last. she bought me a new wand, look!’ he pulled it out and showed it to Harry_Potter. ‘cherry and unicorn hair,’ he said proudly. ‘we think it was one of the last Garrick_Ollivander ever sold, he vanished next day – oi, come back here, Trevor!’ and he dived under the seat to retrieve his toad as it made one of its frequent bids for freedom. ‘are we still doing da meetings this year, Harry_Potter?’ asked Luna_Lovegood, who was detaching a pair of psychedelic spectacles from the middle of the quibbler. ‘no point now we’ve got rid of umbridge, is there?’ said Harry_Potter, sitting down. Neville_Longbottom bumped his head against the seat as he emerged from under it. he looked most disappointed. ‘i liked the da! i learned loads with you!’ ‘i enjoyed the meetings, too,’ said Luna_Lovegood serenely. ‘it was like having friends.’ this was one of those uncomfortable things Luna_Lovegood often said and which made Harry_Potter feel a squirming mixture of pity and embarrassment. before he could respond, however, there was a disturbance outside their compartment door; a group of fourth-year girls was whispering and giggling together on the other side of the glass. ‘you ask him!’ ‘no, you!’ ‘i’ll do it!’ and one of them, a bold-looking girl with large dark eyes, a prominent chin and long black hair, pushed her way through the door. ‘hi, Harry_Potter, i’m Romilda_Vane, Romilda_Vane,’ she said loudly and confidently. ‘why don’t you join us in our compartment? you don’t have to sit with them,’ she added in a stage whisper, indicating Neville_Longbottom’s bottom, which was sticking out from under the seat again as he groped around for Trevor, and Luna_Lovegood, who was now wearing her free spectrespecs, which gave her the look of a demented, multicoloured owl. ‘they’re friends of mine,’ said Harry_Potter coldly. ‘oh,’ said the girl, looking very surprised. ‘oh. ok.’ and she withdrew, sliding the door closed behind her. ‘people expect you to have cooler friends than us,’ said Luna_Lovegood, once again displaying her knack for embarrassing honesty. ‘you are cool,’ said Harry_Potter shortly. ‘none of them was at the ministry. they didn’t fight with me.’ ‘that’s a very nice thing to say,’ beamed Luna_Lovegood, and she pushed her spectrespecs further up her nose and settled down to read the quibbler. ‘we didn’t face him, though,’ said Neville_Longbottom, emerging from under the seat with fluff and dust in his hair and a resigned-looking Trevor in his hand. ‘you did. you should hear my gran talk about you. “that Harry_Potter’s got more backbone than the whole ministry of magic put together!” she’d give anything to have you as a grandson …’ Harry_Potter laughed uncomfortably and changed the subject to o.w.l. results as soon as he could. while Neville_Longbottom recited his grades and wondered aloud whether he would be allowed to take a transfiguration n.e.w.t. with only an ‘acceptable’, Harry_Potter watched him without really listening. Neville_Longbottom’s childhood had been blighted by voldemort just as much as Harry_Potter’s had, but Neville_Longbottom had no idea how close he had come to having Harry_Potter’s destiny. the prophecy could have referred to either of them, yet, for his own inscrutable reasons, voldemort had chosen to believe that Harry_Potter was the one meant. had voldemort chosen Neville_Longbottom, it would be Neville_Longbottom sitting opposite Harry_Potter bearing the Harry_Potter-shaped scar and the weight of the prophecy … or would it? would Neville_Longbottom’s mother have died to save him, as Lily_J._Potter had died for Harry_Potter? surely she would … but what if she had been unable to stand between her son and voldemort? would there, then, have been no ‘chosen one’ at all? an empty seat where Neville_Longbottom now sat and a scarless Harry_Potter who would have been kissed goodbye by his own mother, not ron’s? ‘you all right, Harry_Potter? you look funny,’ said Neville_Longbottom. Harry_Potter started. ‘sorry – i –’ ‘wrackspurt got you?’ asked Luna_Lovegood sympathetically, peering at Harry_Potter through her enormous coloured spectacles. ‘i – what?’ ‘a wrackspurt … they’re invisible, they float in through your ears and make your brain go fuzzy,’ she said. ‘i thought i felt one zooming around in here.’ she flapped her hands at thin air, as though beating off large invisible moths. Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom caught each other’s eye and hastily began to talk of quidditch. the weather beyond the train windows was as patchy as it had been all summer; they passed through stretches of the chilling mist, then out into weak, clear sunlight. it was during one of the clear spells, when the sun was visible almost directly overhead, that Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger entered the compartment at last. ‘wish the lunch trolley would hurry up, i’m starving,’ said Ronald_Weasley longingly, slumping into the seat beside Harry_Potter and rubbing his stomach. ‘hi, Neville_Longbottom, hi, Luna_Lovegood. guess what?’ he added, turning to Harry_Potter. ‘malfoy’s not doing prefect duty. he’s just sitting in his compartment with the other slytherins, we saw him when we passed.’ Harry_Potter sat up straight, interested. it was not like malfoy to pass up the chance to demonstrate his power as prefect, which he had happily abused all the previous year. ‘what did he do when he saw you?’ ‘the usual,’ said Ronald_Weasley indifferently, demonstrating a rude hand gesture. ‘not like him, though, is it? well – that is –’ he did the hand gesture again, ‘but why isn’t he out there bullying first-years?’ ‘dunno,’ said Harry_Potter, but his mind was racing. didn’t this look as though malfoy had more important things on his mind than bullying younger students? ‘maybe he preferred the inquisitorial squad,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘maybe being a prefect seems a bit tame after that.’ ‘i don’t think so,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i think he’s –’ but before he could expound on his theory, the compartment door slid open again and a breathless third-year girl stepped inside. ‘i’m supposed to deliver these to Neville_Longbottom and Harry_Potter p-potter,’ she faltered, as her eyes met Harry_Potter’s and she turned scarlet. she was holding out two scrolls of parchment tied with violet ribbon. perplexed, Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom took the scroll addressed to each of them and the girl stumbled back out of the compartment. ‘what is it?’ Ronald_Weasley demanded, as Harry_Potter unrolled his. ‘an invitation,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Harry_Potter, i would be delighted if you would join me for a bite of lunch in compartment c. sincerely, professor h.e.f. slughorn’ ‘who’s professor slughorn?’ asked Neville_Longbottom, looking perplexedly at his own invitation. ‘new teacher,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, i suppose we’ll have to go, won’t we?’ ‘but what does he want me for?’ asked Neville_Longbottom nervously, as though he were expecting detention. ‘no idea,’ said Harry_Potter, which was not entirely true, though he had no proof   yet that his hunch was correct. ‘listen,’ he added, seized by a sudden brainwave, ‘let’s go under the invisibility cloak, then we might get a good look at malfoy on the way, see what he’s up to.’ this idea, however, came to nothing: the corridors, which were packed with people on the lookout for the lunch trolley, were impossible to negotiate while wearing the cloak. Harry_Potter stowed it regretfully back in his bag, reflecting that it would have been nice to wear it just to avoid all the staring, which seemed to have increased in intensity even since he had last walked down the train. every now and then students would hurtle out of their compartments to get a better look at him. the exception was Cho_Chang, who darted into her compartment when she saw Harry_Potter coming. as Harry_Potter passed the window he saw her deep in determined conversation with her friend Marietta_Edgecombe, who was wearing a very thick layer of makeup that did not entirely obscure the odd formation of pimples still etched across her face. smirking slightly, Harry_Potter pushed on. when they reached compartment c, they saw at once that they were not slughorn’s only invitees, although judging by the enthusiasm of slughorn’s welcome, Harry_Potter was the most warmly anticipated. ‘Harry_Potter, m’boy!’ said slughorn, jumping up at the sight of him so that his great velvet-covered belly seemed to fill all the remaining space in the compartment. his shiny bald head and great silver moustache gleamed as brightly in the sunlight as the golden buttons on his waistcoat. ‘good to see you, good to see you! and you must be mr longbottom!’ Neville_Longbottom nodded, looking scared. at a gesture from slughorn, they sat down opposite each other in the only two empty seats, which were nearest the door. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory around at their fellow guests. he recognised a slytherin from their year, a tall black boy with high cheekbones and long, slanting eyes; there were also two seventh-year boys Harry_Potter did not know and, squashed in the corner beside slughorn and looking as though she was not entirely sure how she had got there, Ginevra_Weasley. ‘now, do you know everyone?’ slughorn asked Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom. ‘Blaise_Zabini is in your year, of course –’ zabini did not make any sign of recognition or greeting, and nor did Harry_Potter or Neville_Longbottom: gryffindor and slytherin students loathed each other on principle. ‘this is Cormac_McLaggen, perhaps you’ve come across each other –? no?’ mclaggen, a large, wire-haired youth, raised a hand and Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom nodded back at him. ‘– and this is Marcus_Belby, i don’t know whether –?’ Marcus_Belby, who was thin and nervous-looking, gave a strained smile. ‘– and this charming young lady tells me she knows you!’ slughorn finished. Ginevra_Weasley grimaCedric_Diggory at Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom from behind slughorn’s back. ‘well now, this is most pleasant,’ said slughorn cosily. ‘a chance to get to know you all a little better. here, take a napkin. i’ve packed my own lunch, the trolley, as i remember it, is heavy on liquorice wands, and a poor old man’s digestive system isn’t quite up to such things … pheasant, Marcus_Belby?’ Marcus_Belby started, and accepted what looked like half a cold pheasant. ‘i was just telling young Marcus_Flint here that i had the pleasure of teaching his uncle damocles,’ slughorn told Harry_Potter and Neville_Longbottom, now passing around a basket of rolls. ‘outstanding wizard, outstanding, and his order of merlin most well-deserved. do you see much of your uncle, Marcus_Flint?’ unfortunately, Marcus_Belby had just taken a large mouthful of pheasant; in his haste to answer slughorn he swallowed too fast, turned purple and began to choke. ‘anapneo,’ said slughorn calmly, pointing his wand at Marcus_Belby, whose airway seemed to clear at once. ‘not … not much of him, no,’ gasped Marcus_Belby, his eyes streaming. ‘well, of course, i daresay he’s busy,’ said slughorn, looking questioningly at Marcus_Belby. ‘i doubt he invented the wolfsBane potion without considerable hard work!’ ‘i suppose …’ said Marcus_Belby, who seemed afraid to take another bite of pheasant until he was sure that slughorn had finished with him. ‘er … he and my dad don’t get on very well, you see, so i don’t really know much about …’ his voice tailed away as slughorn gave him a cold smile and turned to mclaggen instead. ‘now, you, Cormac_McLaggen,’ said slughorn, ‘i happen to know you see a lot of your uncle Tiberius_Ogden, because he has a rather splendid picture of the two of you hunting nogtails in, i think, norfolk?’ ‘oh, yeah, that was fun, that was,’ said mclaggen. ‘we went with bertie higgs and Rufus_Scrimgeour – this was before he became minister, obviously –’ ‘ah, you know bertie and Rufus_Scrimgeour, too?’ beamed slughorn, now offering around a small tray of pies; somehow, Marcus_Belby was missed out. ‘now tell me …’ it was as Harry_Potter had suspected. everyone here seemed to have been invited because they were connected to somebody well-known or influential – everyone except Ginevra_Weasley. zabini, who was interrogated after mclaggen, turned out to have a famously beautiful witch for a mother (from what Harry_Potter could make out, she had been married seven times, each of her husbands dying mysteriously and leaving her mounds of gold). it was Neville_Longbottom’s turn next: this was a very uncomfortable ten minutes, for Neville_Longbottom’s parents, well-known aurors, had been tortured into insanity by Bellatrix_Lestrange and a couple of death eater cronies. at the end of Neville_Longbottom’s interview, Harry_Potter had the impression that slughorn was reserving judgement on Neville_Longbottom, yet to see whether he had any of his parents’ flair. ‘and now,’ said slughorn, shifting massively in his seat with the air of a compère introducing his star act. ‘Harry_Potter! where to begin? i feel i barely scratched the surface when we met over the summer!’ he contemplated Harry_Potter for a moment as though he were a particularly large and succulent piece of pheasant, then said, ‘the “chosen one”, they’re calling you now!’ Harry_Potter said nothing. Marcus_Belby, mclaggen and zabini were all staring at him. ‘of course,’ said slughorn, watching Harry_Potter closely, ‘there have been rumours for years … i remember when – well – after that terrible night – Lily_J._Potter – James_Potter_I – and you survived – and the word was that you must have powers beyond the ordinary –’ zabini gave a tiny little cough that was clearly supposed to indicate amused scepticism. an angry voice burst out from behind slughorn. ‘yeah, zabini, because you’re so talented … at posing …’ ‘oh dear!’ chuckled slughorn comfortably, looking round at Ginevra_Weasley who was glaring at zabini around slughorn’s great belly. ‘you want to be careful, Blaise_Zabini! i saw this young lady perform the most marvellous bat-bogey hex as i was passing her carriage! i wouldn’t cross her!’ zabini merely looked contemptuous. ‘anyway,’ said slughorn, turning back to Harry_Potter. ‘such rumours this summer. of course, one doesn’t know what to believe, the prophet has been known to print inaccuracies, make mistakes – but there seems little doubt, given the number of witnesses, that there was quite a disturbance at the ministry and that you were there in the thick of it all!’ Harry_Potter, who could not see any way out of this without flatly lying, nodded but still said nothing. slughorn beamed at him. ‘so modest, so modest, no wonder Albus_Dumbledore is so fond – you were there, then? but the rest of the stories – so sensational, of course, one doesn’t know quite what to believe – this fabled prophecy, for instance –’ ‘we never heard a prophecy,’ said Neville_Longbottom, turning geranium-pink as he said it. ‘that’s right,’ said Ginevra_Weasley staunchly. ‘Neville_Longbottom and i were both there too, and all this “chosen one” rubbish is just the prophet making things up as usual.’ ‘you were both there too, were you?’ said slughorn with great interest, looking from Ginevra_Weasley to Neville_Longbottom, but both of them sat clamlike before his encouraging smile. ‘yes … well … it is true that the prophet often exaggerates, of course …’ slughorn continued, sounding a little disappointed. ‘i remember dear gwenog telling me – gwenog jones, i mean, of course, captain of the holyhead harpies –’ he meandered off into a long-winded reminiscence, but Harry_Potter had the distinct impression that slughorn had not finished with him, and that he had not been convinCedric_Diggory by Neville_Longbottom and Ginevra_Weasley. the afternoon wore on with more anecdotes about illustrious wizards slughorn had taught, all of whom had been delighted to join what he called the ‘slug club’ at hogwarts. Harry_Potter could not wait to leave, but couldn’t see how to do so politely. finally the train emerged from yet another long misty stretch into a red sunset, and slughorn looked around, blinking in the twilight. ‘good gracious, it’s getting dark already! i didn’t notice that they’d lit the lamps! you’d better go and change into your robes, all of you. mclaggen, you must drop by and borrow that book on nogtails. Harry_Potter, Blaise_Zabini – any time you’re passing. same goes for you, miss,’ he twinkled at Ginevra_Weasley. ‘well, off you go, off you go!’ as he pushed past Harry_Potter into the darkening corridor, zabini shot him a filthy look that Harry_Potter returned with interest. he, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom followed zabini back along the train. ‘i’m glad that’s over,’ muttered Neville_Longbottom. ‘strange man, isn’t he?’ ‘yeah, he is a bit,’ said Harry_Potter, his eyes on zabini. ‘how come you ended up in there, Ginevra_Weasley?’ ‘he saw me hex Zacharias_Smith,’ said Ginevra_Weasley, ‘you remember that idiot from hufflepuff who was in the da? he kept on and on asking about what happened at the ministry and in the end he annoyed me so much i hexed him – when slughorn came in i thought i was going to get detention, but he just thought it was a really good hex and invited me to lunch! mad, eh?’ ‘better reason for inviting someone than because their mother’s famous,’ said Harry_Potter, scowling at the back of zabini’s head, ‘or because their uncle –’ but he broke off. an idea had just occurred to him, a reckless but potentially wonderful idea … in a minute’s time, zabini was going to re-enter the slytherin sixth-year compartment and malfoy would be sitting there, thinking himself unheard by anybody except fellow slytherins … if Harry_Potter could only enter, unseen, behind him, what might he not see or hear? true, there was little of the journey left – hogsmeade station had to be less than half an hour away, judging by the wildness of the scenery flashing by the windows – but nobody else seemed prepared to take Harry_Potter’s suspicions seriously, so it was down to him to prove them. ‘i’ll see you two later,’ said Harry_Potter under his breath, pulling out his invisibility cloak and flinging it over himself. ‘but what’re you – ?’ asked Neville_Longbottom. ‘later!’ whispered Harry_Potter, darting after zabini as quietly as possible, though the rattling of the train made such caution almost pointless. the corridors were almost completely empty now. nearly everyone had returned to their carriages to change into their school robes and pack up their possessions. though he was as close as he could get to zabini without touching him, Harry_Potter was not quick enough to slip into the compartment when zabini opened the door. zabini was already sliding it shut when Harry_Potter hastily stuck out his foot to prevent it closing. ‘what’s wrong with this thing?’ said zabini angrily as he smashed the sliding door repeatedly into Harry_Potter’s foot. Harry_Potter seized the door and pushed it open, hard; zabini, still clinging on to the handle, toppled over sideways into Gregory_Goyle’s lap and, in the ensuing ruckus, Harry_Potter darted into the compartment, leapt on to zabini’s temporarily empty seat and hoisted himself up into the luggage rack. it was fortunate that Goyle and zabini were snarling at each other, drawing all eyes on to them, for Harry_Potter was quite sure his feet and ankles had been revealed as the cloak had flapped around them; indeed, for one horrible moment he thought he saw malfoy’s eyes follow his trainer as it whipped upwards out of sight; but then Goyle slammed the door shut and flung zabini off him, zabini collapsed into his own seat looking ruffled, Vincent_Crabbe returned to his comic and malfoy, sniggering, lay back down across two seats with his head in Pansy_Parkinson’s lap. Harry_Potter lay curled uncomfortably under the cloak to ensure that every inch of him remained hidden, and watched Pansy_Parkinson stroke the sleek blond hair off malfoy’s forehead, smirking as she did so, as though anyone would have loved to have been in her place. the lanterns swinging from the carriage ceiling cast a bright light over the scene: Harry_Potter could read every word of crabbe’s comic directly below him. ‘so, zabini,’ said malfoy, ‘what did slughorn want?’ ‘just trying to make up to well-connected people,’ said zabini, who was still glowering at Goyle. ‘not that he managed to find many.’ this information did not seem to please malfoy. ‘who else had he invited?’ he demanded. ‘mclaggen from gryffindor,’ said zabini. ‘oh yeah, his uncle’s big in the ministry,’ said malfoy. ‘– someone else called Marcus_Belby, from ravenclaw –’ ‘not him, he’s a prat!’ said Pansy_Parkinson. ‘– and longbottom, potter and that weasley girl,’ finished zabini. malfoy sat up very suddenly, knocking Pansy_Parkinson’s hand aside. ‘he invited longbottom?’ ‘well, i assume so, as longbottom was there,’ said zabini indifferently. ‘what’s longbottom got to interest slughorn?’ zabini shrugged. ‘potter, precious potter, obviously he wanted a look at Harry_Potter,’ sneered malfoy, ‘but that weasley girl! what’s so special about her?’ ‘a lot of boys like her,’ said Pansy_Parkinson, watching malfoy out of the corner of her eyes for his reaction. ‘even you think she’s good-looking, don’t you, Blaise_Zabini, and we all know how hard you are to please!’ ‘i wouldn’t touch a filthy little blood traitor like her whatever she looked like,’ said zabini coldly, and Pansy_Parkinson looked pleased. malfoy sank back across her lap and allowed her to resume the stroking of his hair. ‘well, i pity slughorn’s taste. maybe he’s going a bit senile. shame, my father always said he was a good wizard in his day. my father used to be a bit of a favourite of his. slughorn probably hasn’t heard i’m on the train, or –’ ‘i wouldn’t bank on an invitation,’ said zabini. ‘he asked me about nott’s father when i first arrived. they used to be old friends, apparently, but when he heard he’d been caught at the ministry he didn’t look happy, and nott didn’t get an invitation, did he? i don’t think slughorn’s interested in death eaters.’ malfoy looked angry, but forCedric_Diggory out a singularly humourless laugh. ‘well, who cares what he’s interested in? what is he, when you come down to it? just some stupid teacher.’ malfoy yawned ostentatiously. ‘i mean, i might not even be at hogwarts next year, what’s it matter to me if some fat old has-been likes me or not?’ ‘what do you mean, you might not be at hogwarts next year?’ said Pansy_Parkinson indignantly, ceasing grooming malfoy at once. ‘well, you never know,’ said malfoy with the ghost of a smirk. ‘i might have – er – moved on to bigger and better things.’ crouched in the luggage rack under his cloak, Harry_Potter’s heart began to race. what would Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger say about this? crabbe and Goyle were gawping at malfoy; apparently they had had no inkling of any plans to move on to bigger and better things. even zabini had allowed a look of curiosity to mar his haughty features. Pansy_Parkinson resumed the slow stroking of malfoy’s hair, looking dumbfounded. ‘do you mean – him?’ malfoy shrugged. ‘mother wants me to complete my education, but personally, i don’t see it as that important these days. i mean, think about it … when the dark lord takes over, is he going to care how many o.w.l.s or n.e.w.t.s anyone’s got? of course he isn’t … it’ll be all about the kind of service he received, the level of devotion he was shown.’ ‘and you think you’ll be able to do something for him?’ asked zabini scathingly. ‘sixteen years old and not even fully qualified yet?’ ‘i’ve just said, haven’t i? maybe he doesn’t care if i’m qualified. maybe the job he wants me to do isn’t something that you need to be qualified for,’ said malfoy quietly. crabbe and Goyle were both sitting with their mouths open like garGoyles. Pansy_Parkinson was gazing down at malfoy as though she had never seen anything so awe-inspiring. ‘i can see hogwarts,’ said malfoy, clearly relishing the effect he had created as he pointed out of the blackened window. ‘we’d better get our robes on.’ Harry_Potter was so busy staring at malfoy he did not notice Goyle reaching up for his trunk; as he swung it down, it hit Harry_Potter hard on the side of the head. he let out an involuntary gasp of pain and malfoy looked up at the luggage rack, frowning. Harry_Potter was not afraid of malfoy, but he still did not much like the idea of being discovered hiding under his invisibility cloak by a group of unfriendly slytherins. eyes still watering and head still throbbing, he drew his wand, careful not to disarrange the cloak, and waited, breath held. to his relief, malfoy seemed to decide that he had imagined the noise; he pulled on his robes like the others, locked his trunk and, as the train slowed to a jerky crawl, fastened a thick new travelling cloak round his neck. Harry_Potter could see the corridors filling up again and Hope_Howelld that Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley would take his things out on to the platform for him; he was stuck where he was until the compartment had quite emptied. at last, with a final lurch, the train came to a complete halt. Goyle threw the door open and muscled his way out into a crowd of second-years, punching them aside; crabbe and zabini followed. ‘you go on,’ malfoy told Pansy_Parkinson, who was waiting for him with her hand held out as though hoping he would hold it. ‘i just want to check something.’ Pansy_Parkinson left. now Harry_Potter and malfoy were alone in the compartment. people were filing past, descending on to the dark platform. malfoy moved over to the compartment door and let down the blinds, so that people in the corridor beyond could not peer in. he then bent down over his trunk and opened it again. Harry_Potter peered down over the edge of the luggage rack, his heart pumping a little faster. what had malfoy wanted to hide from Pansy_Parkinson? was he about to see the mysterious broken object it was so important to mend? ‘petrificus totalus!’ without warning, malfoy pointed his wand at Harry_Potter, who was instantly paralysed. as though in slow motion, he toppled out of the luggage rack and fell, with an agonising, floor-shaking crash, at malfoy’s feet, the invisibility cloak trapped beneath him, his whole body revealed with his legs still curled absurdly into the cramped kneeling position. he couldn’t move a muscle; he could only gaze up at malfoy, who smiled broadly. ‘i thought so,’ he said jubilantly. ‘i heard Goyle’s trunk hit you. and i thought i saw something white flash through the air after zabini came back …’ his eyes lingered for a moment upon Harry_Potter’s trainers. ‘that was you blocking the door when zabini came back in, i suppose?’ he considered Harry_Potter for a moment. ‘you didn’t hear anything i care about, potter. but while i’ve got you here …’ and he stamped, hard, on Harry_Potter’s face. Harry_Potter felt his nose break; blood spurted everywhere. ‘that’s from my father. now, let’s see …’ malfoy dragged the cloak out from under Harry_Potter’s immobilised body and threw it over him. ‘i don’t reckon they’ll find you till the train’s back in london,’ he said quietly. ‘see you around, potter … or not.’ and taking care to tread on Harry_Potter’s fingers, malfoy left the compartment. 