— chapter nine — the Severus_Snape Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley met Hermione_Granger in the common room before breakfast next morning. hoping for some support for his theory, Harry_Potter lost no time in telling Hermione_Granger what he had overheard malfoy saying on the hogwarts express. ‘but he was obviously showing off for parkinson, wasn’t he?’ interjected Ronald_Weasley quickly, before Hermione_Granger could say anything. ‘well,’ she said uncertainly, ‘i don’t know … it would be like malfoy to make himself seem more important than he is … but that’s a big lie to tell …’ ‘exactly,’ said Harry_Potter, but he could not press the point, because so many people were trying to listen in to his conversation, not to mention staring at him and whispering behind their hands. ‘it’s rude to point,’ Ronald_Weasley snapped at a particularly minuscule first-year as they joined the queue to climb out of the portrait hole. the boy, who had been muttering something about Harry_Potter behind his hand to his friend, promptly turned scarlet and toppled out of the hole in alarm. Ronald_Weasley sniggered. ‘i love being a sixth-year. and we’re going to be getting free time this year. whole periods when we can just sit up here and relax.’ ‘we’re going to need that time for studying, Ronald_Weasley’ said Hermione_Granger, as they set off down the corridor. ‘yeah, but not today,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘today’s going to be a real doss, i reckon.’ ‘hold it!’ said Hermione_Granger, throwing out an arm and halting a passing fourth- year, who was attempting to push past her with a lime-green disc clutched tightly in his hand. ‘Fanged frisbees are banned, hand it over,’ she told him sternly. the scowling boy handed over the snarling frisbee, ducked under Hermione_Granger’s arm and took off after his friends. Ronald_Weasley waited for him to vanish, then tugged the frisbee from Hermione_Granger’s grip. ‘excellent, i’ve always wanted one of these.’ Hermione_Granger’s remonstration was drowned by a loud giggle; Lavender_Brown had apparently found ron’s remark highly amusing. she continued to laugh as she passed them, glancing back at Ronald_Weasley over her shoulder. Ronald_Weasley looked    rather pleased with himself. the ceiling of the great hall was serenely blue and streaked with frail, wispy clouds, just like the squares of sky visible through the high mullioned windows. while they tucked into porridge and eggs and bacon, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley told Hermione_Granger about their embarrassing conversation with Rubeus_Hagrid the previous evening. ‘but he can’t really think we’d continue care of magical creatures!’ she said, looking distressed. ‘i mean, when has any of us expressed … you know … any enthusiasm?’ ‘that’s it, though, innit?’ said Ronald_Weasley swallowing an entire fried egg whole. ‘we were the ones who made the most effort in classes because we like Rubeus_Hagrid. but he thinks we liked the stupid subject. d’you reckon anyone’s going to go on to n.e.w.t.?’ neither Harry_Potter nor Hermione_Granger answered; there was no need. they knew perfectly well that nobody in their year would want to continue care of magical creatures. they avoided Rubeus_Hagrid’s eye and returned his cheery wave only half-heartedly when he left the staff table ten minutes later. after they had eaten, they remained in their places, awaiting professor Minerva_McGonagall’s descent from the staff table. the distribution of timetables was more complicated than usual this year, for professor Minerva_McGonagall needed first to confirm that everybody had achieved the necessary o.w.l. grades to continue with their chosen n.e.w.t.s. Hermione_Granger was immediately cleared to continue with charms, defence against the dark arts, transfiguration, herbology, arithmancy, ancient runes and potions, and shot off to a first-period ancient runes class without further ado. Neville_Longbottom took a little longer to sort out; his round face was anxious as professor Minerva_McGonagall looked down his application and then consulted his o.w.l. results. ‘herbology, fine,’ she said. ‘professor sprout will be delighted to see you back with an “outstanding” o.w.l. and you qualify for defence against the dark arts with “exceeds expectations”. but the problem is transfiguration. i’m sorry, longbottom, but an “acceptable” really isn’t good enough to continue to n.e.w.t. level, i just don’t think you’d be able to cope with the coursework.’ Neville_Longbottom hung his head. professor Minerva_McGonagall peered at him through her square spectacles. ‘why do you want to continue with transfiguration, anyway? i’ve never had the impression that you particularly enjoyed it.’ Neville_Longbottom looked miserable and muttered something about ‘my grandmother wants’. ‘humph,’ snorted professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘it’s high time your grandmother learned to be proud of the grandson she’s got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have – particularly after what happened at the ministry.’ Neville_Longbottom turned very pink and blinked confusedly; professor Minerva_McGonagall had never paid him a compliment before. ‘i’m sorry, longbottom, but i cannot let you into my n.e.w.t. class. i see that you have an “exceeds expectations” in charms, however – why not try for a n.e.w.t. in charms?’ ‘my grandmother thinks charms is a soft option,’ mumbled Neville_Longbottom. ‘take charms,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, ‘and i shall drop Augusta_Longbottom a line reminding her that just because she failed her charms o.w.l., the subject is not necessarily worthless.’ smiling slightly at the look of delighted incredulity on Neville_Longbottom’s face, professor Minerva_McGonagall tapped a blank timetable with the tip of her wand and handed it, now carrying details of his new classes, to Neville_Longbottom. professor Minerva_McGonagall turned next to Parvati_Patil, whose first question was whether Firenze, the handsome centaur, was still teaching divination. ‘he and professor Sybill_Trelawney are dividing classes between them this year,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, a hint of disapproval in her voice; it was common knowledge that she despised the subject of divination. ‘the sixth year is being taken by professor Sybill_Trelawney.’ Parvati_Patil set off for divination five minutes later looking slightly crestfallen. ‘so, potter, potter …’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, consulting her notes as she turned to Harry_Potter. ‘charms, defence against the dark arts, herbology, transfiguration … all fine. i must say, i was pleased with your transfiguration mark, potter, very pleased. now, why haven’t you applied to continue with potions? i thought it was your ambition to become an auror?’ ‘it was, but you told me i had to get an “outstanding” in my o.w.l., professor.’ ‘and so you did when professor snape was teaching the subject. professor slughorn, however, is perfectly happy to accept n.e.w.t. students with “exceeds expectations” at o.w.l. do you wish to proceed with potions?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but i didn’t buy the books or any ingredients or anything –’ ‘i’m sure professor slughorn will be able to lend you some,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘very well, potter, here is your timetable. oh, by the way – twenty Hope_Howellfuls have already put down their names for the gryffindor quidditch team. i shall pass the list to you in due course and you can fix up trials at your leisure.’ a few minutes later, Ronald_Weasley was cleared to do the same subjects as Harry_Potter, and the two of them left the table together. ‘look,’ said Ronald_Weasley delightedly, gazing at his timetable, ‘we’ve got a free period now … and a free period after break … and after lunch … excellent!’ they returned to the common room, which was empty apart from half a dozen seventh-years including Katie_Bell, the only remaining member of the original gryffindor quidditch team that Harry_Potter had joined in his first year. ‘i thought you’d get that, well done,’ she called over, pointing at the captain’s badge on Harry_Potter’s chest. ‘tell me when you call trials!’ ‘don’t be stupid,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘you don’t need to try out, i’ve watched you play for five years …’ ‘you mustn’t start off like that,’ she said warningly. ‘for all you know, there’s someone much better than me out there. good teams have been ruined before now because captains just kept playing the old faces, or letting in their friends …’ Ronald_Weasley looked a little uncomfortable and began playing with the Fanged frisbee Hermione_Granger had taken from the fourth-year. it zoomed around the common room, snarling and attempting to take bites of the tapestry. Crookshanks’s yellow eyes followed it and he hissed when it came too close. an hour later they reluctantly left the sunlit common room for the defence against the dark arts classroom four floors below. Hermione_Granger was already queuing outside, carrying an armful of heavy books and looking put-upon. ‘we got so much homework for runes,’ she said anxiously, when Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley joined her. ‘a fifteen-inch essay, two translations and i’ve got to read these by wednesday!’ ‘shame,’ yawned Ronald_Weasley ‘you wait,’ she said resentfully. ‘i bet snape gives us loads.’ the classroom door opened as she spoke and snape stepped into the corridor, his sallow face framed as ever by two curtains of greasy black hair. silence fell over the queue immediately. ‘inside,’ he said. Harry_Potter looked around as they entered. snape had imposed his personality upon the room already; it was gloomier than usual as curtains had been drawn over the windows, and was lit by candlelight. new pictures adorned the walls, many of them showing people who appeared to be in pain, sporting grisly injuries or strangely contorted body parts. nobody spoke as they settled down, looking around at the shadowy, gruesome pictures. ‘i have not asked you to take out your books,’ said snape, closing the door and moving to face the class from behind his desk; Hermione_Granger hastily dropped her copy of confronting the faceless back into her bag and stowed it under her chair. ‘i wish to speak to you and i want your fullest attention.’ his black eyes roved over their upturned faces, lingering for a fraction of a second longer on Harry_Potter’s than anyone else’s. ‘you have had five teachers in this subject so far, i believe.’ you believe … like you haven’t watched them all come and go, snape, hoping you’d be next, thought Harry_Potter scathingly. ‘naturally, these teachers will all have had their own methods and priorities. given this confusion i am surprised so many of you scraped an o.w.l. in this subject. i shall be even more surprised if all of you manage to keep up with the n.e.w.t. work, which will be much more advanCedric_Diggory.’ snape set off around the edge of the room, speaking now in a lower voice; the class craned their necks to keep him in view. ‘the dark arts,’ said snape, ‘are many, varied, ever-changing and eternal. fighting them is like fighting a many-headed monster, which, each time a neck is severed, sprouts a head even fiercer and cleverer than before. you are fighting that which is unfixed, mutating, indestructible.’ Harry_Potter stared at snape. it was surely one thing to respect the dark arts as a dangerous enemy, another to speak of them, as snape was doing, with a loving caress in his voice? ‘your defences,’ said snape, a little louder, ‘must therefore be as flexible and inventive as the arts you seek to undo. these pictures,’ he indicated a few of them as he swept past, ‘give a fair representation of what happens to those who suffer, for instance, the cruciatus curse’ (he waved a hand towards a witch who was clearly shrieking in agony) ‘feel the dementor’s kiss’ (a wizard lying huddled and blank-eyed slumped against a wall) ‘or provoke the aggression of the inferius’ (a Bloody_Baron mass upon the ground). ‘has an inferius been seen, then?’ said Parvati_Patil in a high-pitched voice. ‘is it definite, is he using them?’ ‘the dark lord has used inferi in the past,’ said snape, ‘which means you would be well-advised to assume he might use them again. now …’ he set off again around the other side of the classroom towards his desk, and again, the class watched him as he walked, his dark robes billowing behind him. ‘… you are, i believe, complete novices in the use of non-verbal spells. what is the advantage of a non-verbal spell?’ Hermione_Granger’s hand shot into the air. snape took his time looking around at everybody else, making sure he had no choice, before saying curtly, ‘very well – miss granger?’ ‘your adversary has no warning about what kind of magic you’re about to perform,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘which gives you a split-second advantage.’ ‘an answer copied almost word for word from the standard book of spells, grade 6,’ said snape dismissively (over in the corner, malfoy sniggered), ‘but correct in essentials. yes, those who progress to using magic without shouting incantations gain an element of surprise in their spell- casting. not all wizards can do this, of course; it is a question of concentration and mind power which some,’ his gaze lingered maliciously upon Harry_Potter once more, ‘lack.’ Harry_Potter knew snape was thinking of their disastrous occlumency lessons of the previous year. he refused to drop his gaze, but glowered at snape until snape looked away. ‘you will now divide,’ snape went on, ‘into pairs. one partner will attempt to jinx the other without speaking. the other will attempt to repel the jinx in equal silence. carry on.’ although snape did not know it, Harry_Potter had taught at least half the class (everyone who had been a member of the da) how to perform a shield charm the previous year. none of them had ever cast the charm without speaking, however. a reasonable amount of cheating ensued; many people were merely whispering the incantation instead of saying it aloud. typically, ten minutes into the lesson Hermione_Granger managed to repel Neville_Longbottom’s muttered jelly-legs jinx without uttering a single word, a feat that would surely have earned her twenty points for gryffindor from any reasonable teacher, thought Harry_Potter bitterly, but which snape ignored. he swept between them as they practised, looking just as much like an overgrown bat as ever, lingering to watch Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley struggling with the task. Ronald_Weasley who was supposed to be jinxing Harry_Potter, was purple in the face, his lips tightly compressed to save himself from the temptation of muttering the incantation. Harry_Potter had his wand raised, waiting on tenterhooks to repel a jinx that seemed unlikely ever to come. ‘pathetic, weasley,’ said snape, after a while. ‘here – let me show you –’ he turned his wand on Harry_Potter so fast that Harry_Potter reacted instinctively; all thought of non-verbal spells forgotten he yelled, ‘protego! ’ his shield charm was so strong snape was knocked off-balance and hit a desk. the whole class had looked round and now watched as snape righted himself, scowling. ‘do you remember me telling you we are practising non-verbal spells, potter?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter stiffly. ‘yes sir.’ ‘there’s no need to call me “sir”, professor.’ the words had escaped him before he knew what he was saying. several people gasped, including Hermione_Granger. behind snape, however, Ronald_Weasley Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan grinned appreciatively. ‘detention, saturday night, my office,’ said snape. ‘i do not take cheek from anyone, potter … not even Harry_Potter.’ ‘that was brilliant, Harry_Potter!’ chortled Ronald_Weasley once they were safely on their way to break a short while later. ‘you really shouldn’t have said it,’ said Hermione_Granger, frowning at Ronald_Weasley ‘what made you?’ ‘he tried to jinx me, in case you didn’t notice!’ fumed Harry_Potter. ‘i had enough of that during those occlumency lessons! why doesn’t he use another guineaPigwidgeonfor a change? what’s Albus_Dumbledore playing at, anyway, letting him teach defence? did you hear him talking about the dark arts? he loves them! all that unfixed, indestructible stuff –’ ‘well,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘i thought he sounded a bit like you.’ ‘like me?’ ‘yes, when you were telling us what it’s like to face voldemort. you said it wasn’t just memorising a bunch of spells, you said it was just you and your brains and your guts – well, wasn’t that what snape was saying? that it really comes down to being brave and quick-thinking?’ Harry_Potter was so disarmed that she had thought his words as well worth memorising as the standard book of spells that he did not argue. ‘Harry_Potter! hey, Harry_Potter!’ Harry_Potter looked round; Jack_Sloper, one of the beaters on the previous year’s gryffindor quidditch team, was hurrying towards him holding a roll of parchment. ‘for you,’ panted sloper. ‘listen, i heard you’re the new captain. when’re you holding trials?’ ‘i’m not sure yet,’ said Harry_Potter, thinking privately that sloper would be very lucky to get back on the team. ‘i’ll let you know.’ ‘oh, right. i was hoping it’d be this weekend –’ but Harry_Potter was not listening; he had just recognised the thin, slanting writing on the parchment. leaving sloper in mid-sentence, he hurried away with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, unrolling the parchment as he went. dear Harry_Potter, i would like to start our private lessons this saturday. kindly come along to my office at eight p.m. i Hope_Howell you are enjoying your first day back at school. yours sincerely Albus_Dumbledore p.s. i enjoy acid pops. ‘he enjoys acid pops?’ said Ronald_Weasley who had read the message over Harry_Potter’s shoulder and was looking perplexed. ‘it’s the password to get past the garGoyle outside his study,’ said Harry_Potter in a low voice. ‘ha! snape’s not going to be pleased … i won’t be able to do his detention!’ he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger spent the whole of break speculating on what Albus_Dumbledore would teach Harry_Potter. Ronald_Weasley thought it most likely to be spectacular jinxes and hexes of the type the death eaters would not know. Hermione_Granger said such things were illegal, and thought it much more likely that Albus_Dumbledore wanted to teach Harry_Potter advanCedric_Diggory defensive magic. after break, she went off to arithmancy while Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley returned to the common room, where they grudgingly started snape’s homework. this turned out to be so complex that they still had not finished when Hermione_Granger joined them for their after-lunch free period (though she considerably speeded up the process). they had only just finished when the bell rang for the afternoon’s double potions and they beat the familiar path down to the Mundungus_Fletchereon classroom that had, for so long, been snape’s. when they arrived in the corridor they saw that there were only a dozen people progressing to n.e.w.t. level. crabbe and Goyle had evidently failed to achieve the required o.w.l. grade, but four slytherins had made it through, including malfoy. four ravenclaws were there, and one hufflepuff, Ernest_Prangmacmillan, whom Harry_Potter liked despite his rather pompous manner. ‘Harry_Potter,’ Ernest_Prangsaid portentously, holding out his hand as Harry_Potter approached, ‘didn’t get a chance to speak in defence against the dark arts this morning.   good lesson, i thought, but shield charms are old hat, of course, for us old da lags … and how are you, Ronald_Weasley – Hermione_Granger?’ before they could say more than ‘fine’, the Mundungus_Fletchereon door opened and slughorn’s belly preCedric_Diggoryed him out of the door. as they filed into the room, his great walrus moustache curved above his beaming mouth and he greeted Harry_Potter and zabini with particular enthusiasm. the Mundungus_Fletchereon was, most unusually, already full of vapours and odd smells. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger sniffed interestedly as they passed large, bubbling cauldrons. the four slytherins took a table together, as did the four ravenclaws. this left Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to share a table with Ernest_Macmillan. they chose the one nearest a gold-coloured cauldron that was emitting one of the most seductive scents Harry_Potter had ever inhaled: somehow it reminded him simultaneously of treacle tart, the woody smell of a broomstick handle and something flowery he thought he might have smelled at the burrow. he found that he was breathing very slowly and deeply and that the potion’s fumes seemed to be filling him up like drink. a great contentment stole over him; he grinned across at Ronald_Weasley who grinned lazily back. ‘now then, now then, now then,’ said slughorn, whose massive outline was quivering through the many shimmering vapours. ‘scales out, everyone, and potion kits, and don’t forget your copies of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making …’ ‘sir?’ said Harry_Potter, raising his hand. ‘Harry_Potter, m’boy?’ ‘i haven’t got a book or scales or anything – nor’s Ronald_Weasley – we didn’t realise we’d be able to do the n.e.w.t., you see –’ ‘ah yes, professor Minerva_McGonagall did mention … not to worry, my dear boy, not to worry at all. you can use ingredients from the store cupboard today, and i’m sure we can lend you some scales, and we’ve got a small stock of old books here, they’ll do until you can write to flourish and blotts …’ slughorn strode over to a corner cupboard and after a moment’s foraging emerged with two very battered-looking copies of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making by libatius borage, which he gave to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley along with two sets of tarnished scales. ‘now then,’ said slughorn, returning to the front of the class and inflating his already bulging chest, so that the buttons on his waistcoat threatened to burst off, ‘i’ve prepared a few potions for you to have a look at, just out of interest, you know. these are the kind of thing you ought to be able to make after completing your n.e.w.t.s. you ought to have heard of ’em, even if you haven’t made ’em yet. anyone tell me what this one is?’ he indicated the cauldron nearest the slytherin table. Harry_Potter raised himself slightly in his seat and saw what looked like plain water boiling away inside it. Hermione_Granger’s well-practised hand hit the air before anybody else’s; slughorn pointed at her. ‘it’s veRita_Skeeterserum, a colourless, odourless potion that forces the drinker to tell the truth,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘very good, very good!’ said slughorn happily. ‘now,’ he continued, pointing at the cauldron nearest the ravenclaw table, ‘this one here is pretty well-known … featured in a few ministry leaflets lately, too … who can –?’ Hermione_Granger’s hand was fastest once more. ‘it’s polyjuice potion, sir,’ she said. Harry_Potter, too, had recognised the slow-bubbling, mudlike substance in the second cauldron, but did not resent Hermione_Granger getting the credit for answering the question; she, after all, was the one who had succeeded in making it, back in their second year. ‘excellent, excellent! now, this one here … yes, my dear?’ said slughorn, now looking slightly bemused as Hermione_Granger’s hand punched the air again. ‘it’s amortentia!’ ‘it is indeed. it seems almost foolish to ask,’ said slughorn, who was looking mightily impressed, ‘but i assume you know what it does?’ ‘it’s the most powerful love potion in the world!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘quite right! you recognised it, i suppose, by its distinctive mother-of-pearl sheen?’ ‘and  rising  the steam  in characteristic spirals,’ said Hermione_Granger enthusiastically, ‘and it’s supposed to smell differently to each of us, according to what attracts us, and i can smell freshly mown grass and new parchment and –’ but she turned slightly pink and did not complete the sentence. ‘may i ask your name, my dear?’ said slughorn, ignoring Hermione_Granger’s embarrassment. ‘Hermione_Granger, sir.’ ‘granger? granger? can you possibly be related to hector dagworth- granger, who founded the most extraordinary society of potioneers?’ ‘no, i don’t think so, sir. i’m muggle-born, you see.’ Harry_Potter saw malfoy lean close to nott and whisper something; both of them sniggered, but slughorn showed no dismay; on the contrary, he beamed and looked from Hermione_Granger to Harry_Potter, who was sitting next to her. ‘oho! “one of my best friends is muggle-born and she’s the best in our year!” i’m assuming this is the very friend of whom you spoke, Harry_Potter?’ ‘yes, sir,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, well, take twenty well-earned points for gryffindor, miss granger,’ said slughorn genially. malfoy looked rather as he had done the time Hermione_Granger had punched him in the face. Hermione_Granger turned to Harry_Potter with a radiant expression and whispered, ‘did you really tell him i’m the best in the year? oh, Harry_Potter!’ ‘well, what’s so impressive about that?’ whispered Ronald_Weasley who for some reason looked annoyed. ‘you are the best in the year – i’d’ve told him so if he’d asked me!’ Hermione_Granger smiled but made a ‘shush’ing gesture, so that they could hear what slughorn was saying. Ronald_Weasley looked slightly disgruntled. ‘amortentia doesn’t really create love, of course. it is impossible to manufacture or imitate love. no, this will simply cause a powerful infatuation or obsession. it is probably the most dangerous and powerful potion in this room – oh yes,’ he said, nodding gravely at malfoy and nott, both of whom were smirking sceptically. ‘when you have seen as much of life as i have, you will not underestimate the power of obsessive love … ‘and now,’ said slughorn, ‘it is time for us to start work.’ ‘sir, you haven’t told us what’s in this one,’ said Ernest_Prangmacmillan, pointing at a small black cauldron standing on slughorn’s desk. the potion within was splashing about merrily; it was the colour of molten gold, and large drops were leaping like goldfish above the surface, though not a particle had spilled. ‘oho,’ said slughorn again. Harry_Potter was sure that slughorn had not forgotten the potion at all, but had waited to be asked for dramatic effect. ‘yes. that. well, that one, ladies and gentlemen, is a most curious little potion called felix felicis. i take it,’ he turned, smiling, to look at Hermione_Granger, who had let out an audible gasp, ‘that you know what felix felicis does, miss granger?’ ‘it’s liquid luck,’ said Hermione_Granger excitedly. ‘it makes you lucky!’ the whole class seemed to sit up a little straighter. now all Harry_Potter could see of malfoy was the back of his sleek blond head, because he was at last giving slughorn his full and undivided attention. ‘quite right, take another ten points for gryffindor. yes, it’s a funny little potion, felix felicis,’ said slughorn. ‘desperately tricky to make, and disastrous to get wrong. however, if brewed correctly, as this has been, you will find that all your endeavours tend to succeed … at least until the effects wear off.’ ‘why don’t people drink it all the time, sir?’ said Terry_Boot eagerly. ‘because if taken in excess, it causes giddiness, recklessness and dangerous overconfidence,’ said slughorn. ‘too much of a good thing, you know … highly toxic in large quantities. but taken sparingly, and very occasionally …’ ‘have you ever taken it, sir?’ asked Michael_Corner with great interest. ‘twice in my life,’ said slughorn. ‘once when i was twenty-four, once when i was fifty-seven. two tablespoonfuls taken with breakfast. two perfect days.’ he gazed dreamily into the distance. whether he was play-acting or not, thought Harry_Potter, the effect was good. ‘and that,’ said slughorn, apparently coming back to earth, ‘is what i shall be offering as a prize in this lesson.’ there was a silence in which every bubble and gurgle of the surrounding potions seemed magnified tenfold. ‘one tiny bottle of felix felicis,’ said slughorn, taking a minuscule glass bottle with a cork in it out of his pocket and showing it to them all. ‘enough for twelve hours’ luck. from dawn till dusk, you will be lucky in everything you attempt. ‘now, i must give you warning that felix felicis is a banned substance in organised competitions … sporting events, for instance, examinations or elections. so the winner is to use it on an ordinary day only … and watch how that ordinary day becomes extraordinary! ‘so,’ said slughorn, suddenly brisk, ‘how are you to win my fabulous prize? well, by turning to page ten of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making. we have a little over an hour left to us, which should be time for you to make a decent attempt at the draught of living death. i know it is more complex than anything you have attempted before, and i do not expect a perfect potion from anybody. the person who does best, however, will win little felix here. off you go!’ there was a scraping as everyone drew their cauldrons towards them, and some loud clunks as people began adding weights to their scales, but nobody spoke. the concentration within the room was almost tangible. Harry_Potter saw malfoy riffling feverishly through his copy of advanCedric_Diggory potion-making. it could not have been clearer that malfoy really wanted that lucky day. Harry_Potter bent swiftly over the tattered book slughorn had lent him. to his annoyance he saw that the previous owner had scribbled all over the pages, so that the margins were as black as the printed portions. bending low to decipher the ingredients (even here, the previous owner had made annotations and crossed things out) Harry_Potter hurried off towards the store cupboard to find what he needed. as he dashed back to his cauldron, he saw malfoy cutting up valerian roots as fast as he could. everyone kept glancing around at what the rest of the class was doing; this was both an advantage and a disadvantage of potions, that it was hard to keep your work private. within ten minutes, the whole place was full of bluish steam. Hermione_Granger, of course, seemed to have progressed furthest. her potion already resembled the ‘smooth, blackcurrant-coloured liquid’ mentioned as the ideal halfway stage. having finished chopping his roots, Harry_Potter bent low over his book again. it was really very irRita_Skeeterting, having to try and decipher the directions under all the stupid scribbles of the previous owner, who for some reason had taken issue with the order to cut up the sopophorous bean and had written in the alternative instruction: crush with flat side of silver dagger, releases juice better than cutting. ‘sir, i think you knew my grandfather, abraxas malfoy?’ Harry_Potter looked up; slughorn was just passing the slytherin table. ‘yes,’ said slughorn, without looking at malfoy, ‘i was sorry to hear he had died, although of course it wasn’t unexpected, dragon pox at his age …’ and he walked away. Harry_Potter bent back over his cauldron, smirking. he could tell that malfoy had expected to be treated like Harry_Potter or zabini; perhaps even Hope_Howelld for some preferential treatment of the type he had learned to expect from snape. it looked as though malfoy would have to rely on nothing but talent to win the bottle of felix felicis. the sopophorous bean was proving very difficult to cut up. Harry_Potter turned to Hermione_Granger. ‘can i borrow your silver knife?’ she nodded impatiently, not taking her eyes off her potion, which was still deep purple, though according to the book ought to be turning a light shade of lilac by now. Harry_Potter crushed his bean with the flat side of the dagger. to his astonishment, it immediately exuded so much juice he was amazed the shrivelled bean could have held it all. hastily scooping it all into the cauldron he saw, to his surprise, that the potion immediately turned exactly the shade of lilac described by the textbook. his annoyance with the previous owner vanishing on the spot, Harry_Potter now squinted at the next line of instructions. according to the book, he had to stir counter-clockwise until the potion turned clear as water. according to the addition the previous owner had made, however, he ought to add a clockwise stir after every seventh counter-clockwise stir. could the old owner be right twice? Harry_Potter stirred counter-clockwise, held his breath, and stirred once clockwise. the effect was immediate. the potion turned palest pink. ‘how are you doing that?’ demanded Hermione_Granger, who was red-faCedric_Diggory and whose hair was growing bushier and bushier in the fumes from her cauldron; her potion was still resolutely purple. ‘add a clockwise stir –’ ‘no, no, the book says counter-clockwise!’ she snapped. Harry_Potter shrugged and continued what he was doing. seven stirs counter- clockwise, one clockwise, pause … seven stirs counter-clockwise, one stir clockwise … across the table, Ronald_Weasley was cursing fluently under his breath; his potion looked like liquid liquorice. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory around. as far as he could see, no one else’s potion had turned as pale as his. he felt elated, something that had certainly never happened before in this Mundungus_Fletchereon. ‘and time’s … up!’ called slughorn. ‘stop stirring, please!’ slughorn moved slowly between the tables, peering into cauldrons. he made no comment, but occasionally gave the potions a stir, or a sniff. at last he reached the table where Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and Ernest_Prangwere sitting. he smiled ruefully at the tarlike substance in ron’s cauldron. he passed over Ernest_Macmillan’s navy concoction. Hermione_Granger’s potion he gave an approving nod. then he saw Harry_Potter’s, and a look of incredulous delight spread over his face. ‘the clear winner!’ he cried to the Mundungus_Fletchereon. ‘excellent, excellent, Harry_Potter! good lord, it’s clear you’ve inherited your mother’s talent, she was a dab hand at potions, Lily_J._Potter was! here you are, then, here you are – one bottle of felix felicis, as promised, and use it well!’ Harry_Potter slipped the tiny bottle of golden liquid into his inner pocket, feeling an odd combination of delight at the furious looks on the slytherins’ faces, and guilt at the disappointed expression on Hermione_Granger’s. Ronald_Weasley looked simply dumbfounded. ‘how did you do that?’ he whispered to Harry_Potter as they left the Mundungus_Fletchereon. ‘got lucky, i suppose,’ said Harry_Potter, because malfoy was within earshot. once they were securely ensconCedric_Diggory at the gryffindor table for dinner, however, he felt safe enough to tell them. Hermione_Granger’s face became stonier with every word he uttered. ‘i s’pose you think i cheated?’ he finished, aggravated by her expression. ‘well, it wasn’t exactly your own work, was it?’ she said stiffly. ‘he only followed different instructions to ours,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘could’ve been a catastrophe, couldn’t it? but he took a risk and it paid off.’ he heaved a sigh. ‘slughorn could’ve handed me that book, but no, i get the one no one’s ever written in. puked on, by the look of page fifty-two, but –’ ‘hang on,’ said a voice close by Harry_Potter’s left ear and he caught a sudden waft of that flowery smell he had picked up in slughorn’s Mundungus_Fletchereon. he looked round and saw that Ginevra_Weasley had joined them. ‘did i hear right? you’ve been taking orders from something someone wrote in a book, Harry_Potter?’ she looked alarmed and angry. Harry_Potter knew what was on her mind at once. ‘it’s nothing,’ he said reassuringly, lowering his voice. ‘it’s not like, you know, riddle’s diary. it’s just an old textbook someone’s scribbled in.’ ‘but you’re doing what it says?’ ‘i just tried a few of the tips written in the margins, honestly, Ginevra_Weasley, there’s nothing funny –’ ‘Ginevra_Weasley’s got a point,’ said Hermione_Granger, perking up at once. ‘we ought to check that there’s nothing odd about it. i mean, all these funny instructions, who knows?’ ‘hey!’ said Harry_Potter indignantly, as she pulled his copy of advanCedric_Diggory potion- making out of his bag and raised her wand. ‘specialis revelio!’ she said, rapping it smartly on the front cover. nothing whatsoever happened. the book simply lay there, looking old and dirty and dog-eared. ‘finished?’ said Harry_Potter irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘or d’you want to wait and see if it does a few back flips?’ ‘it seems all right,’ said Hermione_Granger, still staring at the book suspiciously. ‘i mean, it really does seem to be … just a textbook.’ ‘good. then i’ll have it back,’ said Harry_Potter, snatching it off the table, but it slipped from his hand and landed open on the floor. nobody else was looking. Harry_Potter bent low to retrieve the book and, as he did so, he saw something scribbled along the bottom of the back cover in the same small, cramped handwriting as the instructions that had won him his bottle of felix felicis, now safely hidden inside a pair of socks in his trunk upstairs. this book is the property of the Severus_Snape   