— chapter twenty-nine — the phoenix lament ‘c’mere, Harry_Potter …’ ‘no.’ ‘you can’ stay here, Harry_Potter … come on, now …’ ‘no.’ he did not want to leave Albus_Dumbledore’s side, he did not want to move anywhere. Rubeus_Hagrid’s hand on his shoulder was trembling. then another voice said, ‘Harry_Potter, come on.’ a much smaller and warmer hand had enclosed his and was pulling him upwards. he obeyed its pressure without really thinking about it. only as he walked blindly back through the crowd did he realise, from a trace of flowery scent on the air, that it was Ginevra_Weasley who was leading him back into the castle. incomprehensible voices battered him, sobs and shouts and wails stabbed the night, but Harry_Potter and Ginevra_Weasley walked on, back up the steps into the entrance hall: faces swam on the edges of Harry_Potter’s vision, people were peering at him, whispering, wondering, and gryffindor rubies glistened on the floor like drops of blood as they made their way towards the marble staircase. ‘we’re going to the hospital wing,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘i’m not hurt,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘it’s Minerva_McGonagall’s orders,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘everyone’s up there,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger and lupin and everyone –’ fear stirred in Harry_Potter’s chest again: he had forgotten the inert figures he had left behind. ‘Ginevra_Weasley, who else is dead?’ ‘don’t worry, none of us.’ ‘but the dark mark – malfoy said he stepped over a body –’ ‘he stepped over William_Weasley, but it’s all right, he’s alive.’ there was something in her voice, however, that Harry_Potter knew boded ill. ‘are you sure?’    ‘of course i’m sure … he’s a – a bit of a mess, that’s all. greyback attacked him. madam pomfrey says he won’t – won’t look the same any more …’ Ginevra_Weasley’s voice trembled a little. ‘we don’t really know what the after-effects will be – i mean, greyback being a werewolf, but not transformed at the time.’ ‘but the others … there were other bodies on the ground …’ ‘Neville_Longbottom’s in the hospital wing, but madam pomfrey thinks he’ll make a full recovery, and professor flitwick was knocked out, but he’s all right, just a bit shaky. he insisted on going off to look after the ravenclaws. and a death eater’s dead, he got hit by a killing curse the huge blond one was firing off everywhere – Harry_Potter, if we hadn’t had your felix potion, i think we’d all have been killed, but everything seemed to just miss us –’ they had reached the hospital wing: pushing open the doors, Harry_Potter saw Neville_Longbottom lying, apparently asleep, in a bed near the door. ron, Hermione_Granger, Luna_Lovegood, tonks and lupin were gathered around another bed near the far end of the ward. at the sound of the doors opening, they all looked up. Hermione_Granger ran to Harry_Potter and hugged him; lupin moved forwards too, looking anxious. ‘are you all right, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i’m fine … how’s William_Weasley?’ nobody answered. Harry_Potter looked over Hermione_Granger’s shoulder and saw an unrecognisable face lying on William_Weasley’s pillow, so badly slashed and ripped that he looked grotesque. madam pomfrey was dabbing at his wounds with some harsh-smelling green ointment. Harry_Potter remembered how snape had mended malfoy’s sectumsempra wounds so easily with his wand. ‘can’t you fix them with a charm or something?’ he asked the matron. ‘no charm will work on these,’ said madam pomfrey. ‘i’ve tried everything i know, but there is no cure for werewolf bites.’ ‘but he wasn’t bitten at the full moon,’ said ron, who was gazing down into his brother’s face as though he could somehow force him to mend just by staring. ‘greyback hadn’t transformed, so surely William_Weasley won’t be a – a real –?’ he looked uncertainly at lupin. ‘no, i don’t think that William_Weasley will be a true werewolf,’ said lupin, ‘but that does not mean that there won’t be some contamination. those are cursed wounds. they are unlikely ever to heal fully, and – and William_Weasley might have some wolfish characteristics from now on.’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore might know something that’d work, though,’Ronald_Weasleysaid. those maniacs on Albus_Dumbledore’s orders, ‘where Albus_Dumbledore owes him, he can’t leave him in this state –’ is he? William_Weasley fought  ‘ron – Albus_Dumbledore’s dead,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘no!’ lupin looked wildly from Ginevra_Weasley to Harry_Potter, as though hoping the latter might contradict her, but when Harry_Potter did not, lupin collapsed into a chair beside William_Weasley’s bed, his hands over his face. Harry_Potter had never seen lupin lose control before; he felt as though he was intruding upon something private, indecent; he turned away and caught ron’s eye instead, exchanging in silence a look that confirmed what Ginevra_Weasley had said. ‘how did he die?’ whispered tonks. ‘how did it happen?’ ‘snape killed him,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i was there, i saw it. we arrived back on the astronomy tower because that’s where the mark was … Albus_Dumbledore was ill, he was weak, but i think he realised it was a trap when we heard footsteps running up the stairs. he immobilised me, i couldn’t do anything, i was under the invisibility cloak – and then malfoy came through the door and disarmed him –’ Hermione_Granger clapped her hands to her mouth, andRonald_Weasleygroaned. Luna_Lovegood’s mouth trembled. ‘– more death eaters arrived – and then snape – and snape did it. the avada kedavra.’ Harry_Potter couldn’t go on. madam pomfrey burst into tears. nobody paid her any attention except Ginevra_Weasley, who whispered, ‘shh! listen!’ gulping, madam pomfrey pressed her fingers to her mouth, her eyes wide. somewhere out in the darkness, a phoenix was singing in a way Harry_Potter had never heard before: a stricken lament of terrible beauty. and Harry_Potter felt, as he had felt about phoenix song before, that the music was inside him, not without: it was his own grief turned Magic_goblinally to song that echoed across the grounds and through the castle windows. how long they all stood there, listening, he did not know, nor why it seemed to ease their pain a little to listen to the sound of their mourning, but it felt like a long time later that the hospital door opened again and professor Minerva_McGonagall entered the ward. like all the rest, she bore marks of the recent battle: there were grazes on her face and her robes were ripped. ‘Molly_Weasley and Arthur_Weasley are on their way,’ she said, and the spell of the music was broken: everyone roused themselves as though coming out of trances, turning again to look at William_Weasley, or else to rub their own eyes, shake their heads. ‘Harry_Potter, what happened? according to Rubeus_Hagrid you were with professor Albus_Dumbledore when he – when it happened. he says professor snape was involved in some –’ ‘snape killed Albus_Dumbledore,’ said Harry_Potter. she stared at him for a moment, then swayed alarmingly; madam pomfrey, who seemed to have pulled herself together, ran forwards, conjuring a chair from thin air, which she pushed under Minerva_McGonagall. ‘snape,’ repeated Minerva_McGonagall faintly, falling into the chair. ‘we all wondered … but he trusted … always … snape … i can’t believe it …’ ‘snape was a highly accomplished occlumens,’ said lupin, his voice uncharacteristically harsh. ‘we always knew that.’ ‘but Albus_Dumbledore swore he was on our side!’ whispered tonks. ‘i always thought Albus_Dumbledore must know something about snape that we didn’t …’ ‘he always hinted that he had an iron-clad reason for trusting snape,’ muttered professor Minerva_McGonagall, now dabbing at the corners of her leaking eyes with a tartan-edged handkerchief. ‘i mean … with snape’s history … of course people were bound to wonder … but Albus_Dumbledore told me explicitly that snape’s repentance was absolutely genuine … wouldn’t hear a word against him!’ ‘i’d love to know what snape told him to convince him,’ said tonks. ‘i know,’ said Harry_Potter, and they all turned to stare at him. ‘snape passed voldemort the information that made voldemort hunt down my mum and dad. then snape told Albus_Dumbledore he hadn’t realised what he was doing, he was really sorry he’d done it, sorry that they were dead.’ ‘and Albus_Dumbledore believed that?’ said lupin incredulously. ‘Albus_Dumbledore believed snape was sorry James_Potter_I was dead? snape hated James_Potter_I …’ ‘and he didn’t think my mother was worth a damn, either,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘because she was muggle-born … “mudblood”, he called her …’ nobody asked how Harry_Potter knew this. all of them seemed to be lost in horrified shock, trying to digest the monstrous truth of what had happened. ‘this is all my fault,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall suddenly. she looked disorientated, twisting her wet handkerchief in her hands. ‘my fault. i sent Filius_Flitwick to fetch snape tonight, i actually sent for him to come and help us! if i hadn’t alerted snape to what was going on, he might never have joined forces with the death eaters. i don’t think he knew they were there before Filius_Flitwick told him, i don’t think he knew they were coming.’ ‘it isn’t your fault, Minerva_McGonagall,’ said lupin firmly. ‘we all wanted more help, we were glad to think snape was on his way …’ ‘so when he arrived at the fight, he joined in on the death eaters’ side?’ asked Harry_Potter, who wanted every detail of snape’s duplicity and infamy, feverishly collecting more reasons to hate him, to swear vengeance. ‘i don’t know exactly how it happened,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall distractedly. ‘it’s all so confusing … Albus_Dumbledore had told us that he would be leaving the school for a few hours and that we were to patrol the corridors just in case … Remus_Lupin, William_Weasley and NymphaNymphadora_Tonks_Tonks were to join us … and so we patrolled. all seemed quiet. every secret passageway out of the school was covered. we knew nobody could fly in. there were powerful enchantments on every entrance into the castle. i still don’t know how the death eaters can possibly have entered …’ ‘i do,’ said Harry_Potter, and he explained, briefly, about the pair of vanishing cabinets and the Magic_goblinal pathway they formed. ‘so they got in through the room of requirement.’ almost against his will he glanced fromRonald_Weasleyto Hermione_Granger, both of whom looked devastated. ‘i messed up, Harry_Potter,’ saidRonald_Weasleybleakly. ‘we did like you told us: we checked the marauder’s map and we couldn’t see malfoy on it, so we thought he must be in the room of requirement, so me, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom went to keep watch on it … but malfoy got past us.’ ‘he came out of the room about an hour after we started keeping watch,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘he was on his own, clutching that awful shrivelled arm –’ ‘his hand of glory,’ said ron. ‘gives light only to the holder, remember?’ ‘anyway,’ Ginevra_Weasley went on, ‘he must have been checking whether the coast was clear to let the death eaters out, because the moment he saw us he threw something into the air and it all went pitch black –’ ‘– peruvian inStanley_Shunpiket darkness powder,’ saidRonald_Weasleybitterly. ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s. i’m going to be having a word with them about who they let buy their products.’ ‘we tried everything – lumos, incendio,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘nothing would penetrate the darkness; all we could do was grope our way out of the corridor again, and meanwhile we could hear people rushing past us. obviously malfoy could see because of that hand thing and was guiding them, but we didn’t dare use any curses or anything in case we hit each other, and by the time we’d reached a corridor that was light, they’d gone.’ ‘luckily,’ said lupin hoarsely, ‘ron, Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom ran into us almost immediately and told us what had happened. we found the death eaters minutes later, heading in the direction of the astronomy tower. malfoy obviously hadn’t expected more people to be on the watch; he seemed to have exhausted his supply of darkness powder, at any rate. a fight broke out, they scattered and we gave chase. one of them, Gibbon, broke away and headed up the tower stairs –’ ‘to set off the mark?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘he must have done, yes, they must have arranged that before they left the room of requirement,’ said lupin. ‘but i don’t think Gibbon liked the idea of waiting up there alone for Albus_Dumbledore, because he came running back downstairs to rejoin the fight and was hit by a killing curse that just missed me.’ ‘so ifRonald_Weasleywas watching the room of requirement with Ginevra_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom,’ said Harry_Potter, turning to Hermione_Granger, ‘were you –?’ ‘outside snape’s office, yes,’ whispered Hermione_Granger, her eyes sparkling with tears, ‘with Luna_Lovegood. we hung around for ages outside it and nothing happened … we didn’t know what was going on upstairs,Ronald_Weasleyhad taken the marauder’s map … it was nearly midnight when professor flitwick came sprinting down into the Mundungus_Fletchereons. he was shouting about death eaters in the castle, i don’t think he really registered that Luna_Lovegood and i were there at all, he just burst his way into snape’s office and we heard him saying that snape had to go back with him and help and then we heard a loud thump and snape came hurtling out of his room and he saw us and – and –’ ‘what?’ Harry_Potter urged her. ‘i was so stupid, Harry_Potter!’ said Hermione_Granger in a high-pitched whisper. ‘he said professor flitwick had collapsed and that we should go and take care of him while he – while he went to help fight the death eaters –’ she covered her face in shame and continued to talk into her fingers, so that her voice was muffled. ‘we went into his office to see if we could help professor flitwick and found him unconscious on the floor … and, oh, it’s so obvious now, snape must have stupefied flitwick, but we didn’t realise, Harry_Potter, we didn’t realise, we just let snape go!’ ‘it’s not your fault,’ said lupin firmly. ‘Hermione_Granger, had you not obeyed snape and got out of the way, he would probably have killed you and Luna_Lovegood.’ ‘so then he came upstairs,’ said Harry_Potter, who in his mind’s eye was watching snape running up the marble staircase, his black robes William_Weasleyowing behind him as ever, pulling his wand from under his cloak as he ascended, ‘and he found the place where you were all fighting …’ ‘we were in trouble, we were losing,’ said tonks in a low voice. ‘Gibbon was down, but the rest of the death eaters seemed ready to fight to the death. Neville_Longbottom had been hurt, William_Weasley had been savaged by greyback … it was all dark … curses flying everywhere … the malfoy boy had vanished, he must have slipped past, up the stairs to the tower … then more of them ran after him, but one of them blocked the stairs behind them with some kind of curse … Neville_Longbottom ran at it and got thrown up into the air –’ ‘none of us could break through,’ said ron, ‘and that massive death eater was still firing off jinxes all over the place, they were bouncing off the walls and barely missing us …’ ‘and then snape was there,’ said tonks, ‘and then he wasn’t –’ ‘i saw him running towards us, but that huge death eater’s jinx just missed me right afterwards and i ducked and lost track of things,’ said Ginevra_Weasley. ‘i saw him run straight through the cursed barrier as though it wasn’t there,’ said lupin. ‘i tried to follow him but was thrown back just like Neville_Longbottom …’ ‘he must have known a spell we didn’t,’ whispered Minerva_McGonagall. ‘after all – he was the defence against the dark arts teacher … i just assumed that he was in a hurry to chase after the death eaters who’d escaped up to the tower …’ ‘he was,’ said Harry_Potter savagely, ‘but to help them, not to stop them … and i’ll bet you had to have a dark mark to get through that barrier – so what happened when he came back down?’ ‘well, the big death eater had just fired off a hex that caused half the ceiling to fall in, and also broke the curse blocking the stairs,’ said lupin. ‘we all ran forwards – those of us who were still Stanley_Shunpikeding, anyway – and then snape and the boy emerged out of the dust – obviously, none of us attacked them –’ ‘we just let them pass,’ said tonks in a hollow voice, ‘we thought they were being chased by the death eaters – and next thing, the other death eaters and greyback were back and we were fighting again – i thought i heard snape shout something, but i don’t know what –’ ‘he shouted, “it’s over,”’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’d done what he’d meant to do.’ they all fell silent. Fawkes’s lament was still echoing over the dark grounds outside. as the music reverberated upon the air, unbidden, unwelcome thoughts slunk into Harry_Potter’s mind … had they taken Albus_Dumbledore’s body from the foot of the tower yet? what would happen to it next? where would it rest? he clenched his fists tightly in his pockets. he could feel the small cold lump of the fake horcrux against the knuckles of his right hand. the doors of the hospital wing burst open, making them all jump: mr and mrs weasley were striding up the ward, Fleur_Delacour just behind them, her beautiful face terrified. ‘Molly_Weasley – Arthur_Weasley –’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, jumping up and hurrying to greet them. ‘i am so sorry –’ ‘William_Weasley,’ whispered mrs weasley, darting past professor Minerva_McGonagall as she caught sight of William_Weasley’s mangled face. ‘oh, William_Weasley!’ lupin and tonks had got up hastily and retreated so that mr and mrs weasley could get nearer to the bed. mrs weasley bent over her son and pressed her lips to his Bloody_Baron forehead. ‘you said greyback attacked him?’ mr weasley asked professor Minerva_McGonagall distractedly. ‘but he hadn’t transformed? so what does that mean? what will happen to William_Weasley?’ ‘we don’t yet know,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, looking helplessly at lupin. ‘there will probably be some contamination, Arthur_Weasley,’ said lupin. ‘it is an odd case, possibly unique … we don’t know what his behaviour might be like when he wakes up …’ mrs weasley took the nasty-smelling ointment from madam pomfrey and began dabbing at William_Weasley’s wounds. ‘and Albus_Dumbledore …’ said mr weasley. ‘Minerva_McGonagall, is it true … is he really …?’ as professor Minerva_McGonagall nodded, Harry_Potter felt Ginevra_Weasley move beside him and looked at her. her slightly narrowed eyes were fixed upon Fleur_Delacour, who was gazing down at William_Weasley with a frozen expression on her face. ‘Albus_Dumbledore gone,’ whispered mr weasley, but mrs weasley had eyes only for her eldest son; she began to sob, tears falling on to William_Weasley’s mutilated face. ‘of course, it doesn’t matter how he looks … it’s not r – really important … but he was a very handsome little b – boy … always very handsome … and he was g – going to be married!’ ‘and what do you mean by zat?’ said Fleur_Delacour suddenly and loudly. ‘what do you mean, ’e was going to be married?’ mrs weasley raised her tear-stained face, looking startled. ‘well – only that –’ ‘you theenk William_Weasley will not wish to marry me any more?’ demanded Fleur_Delacour. ‘you theenk, because of these bites, he will not love me?’ ‘no, that’s not what i –’ ‘because ’e will!’ said Fleur_Delacour, drawing herself up to her full height and throwing back her long mane of silver hair. ‘it would take more zan a werewolf to stop William_Weasley loving me!’ ‘well, yes, i’m sure,’ said mrs weasley, ‘but i thought perhaps – given how – how he –’ ‘you thought i would not weesh to marry him? or per’aps, you ’oped?’ said Fleur_Delacour, her nostrils flaring. ‘what do i care how ’e looks? i am good- looking enough for both of us, i theenk! all these scars show is zat my husband is brave! and i shall do zat!’ she added fiercely, pushing mrs weasley aside and snatching the ointment from her. mrs weasley fell back against her husband and watched Fleur_Delacour mopping up William_Weasley’s wounds with a most curious expression upon her face. nobody said anything; Harry_Potter did not dare move. like everybody else, he was waiting for the explosion. ‘our great auntie Muriel,’ said mrs weasley after a long pause, ‘has a very beautiful tiara – goblin-made – which i am sure i could persuade her to lend you for the wedding. she is very fond of William_Weasley, you know, and it would look lovely with your hair.’ ‘thank you,’ said Fleur_Delacour stiffly. ‘i am sure zat will be lovely.’ and then – Harry_Potter did not quite see how it happened – both women were crying and hugging each other. completely bewildered, wondering whether the world had gone mad, he turned round:Ronald_Weasleylooked as stunned as Harry_Potter felt and Ginevra_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were exchanging startled looks. ‘you see!’ said a strained voice. tonks was glaring at lupin. ‘she still wants to marry him, even though he’s been bitten! she doesn’t care!’ ‘it’s different,’ said lupin, barely moving his lips and looking suddenly tense. ‘William_Weasley will not be a full werewolf. the cases are completely –’ ‘but i don’t care either, i don’t care!’ said tonks, seizing the front of lupin’s robes and shaking them. ‘i’ve told you a million times …’ and the meaning of tonks’s patronus and her mouse-coloured hair, and the reason she had come running to find Albus_Dumbledore when she had heard a rumour someone had been attacked by greyback, all suddenly became clear to Harry_Potter; it had not been Sirius_Black that tonks had fallen in love with after all … ‘and i’ve told you a million times,’ said lupin, refusing to meet her eyes, staring at the floor, ‘that i am too old for you, too poor … too dangerous …’ ‘i’ve said all along you’re taking a ridiculous line on this, Remus_Lupin,’ said mrs weasley over Fleur_Delacour’s shoulder as she patted her on the back. ‘i am not being ridiculous,’ said lupin steadily. ‘tonks deserves somebody young and whole.’ ‘but she wants you,’ said mr weasley, with a small smile. ‘and after all, Remus_Lupin, young and whole men do not necessarily remain so.’ he gestured sadly at his son, lying between them. ‘this is … not the moment to discuss it,’ said lupin, avoiding everybody’s eyes as he looked around distractedly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore is dead …’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore would have been happier than anybody to think that there was a little more love in the world,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall curtly, just as the hospital doors opened again and Rubeus_Hagrid walked in. the little of his face that was not obscured by hair or beard was soaking and swollen; he was shaking with tears, a vast spotted handkerchief in his hand. ‘i’ve … i’ve done it, professor,’ he choked. ‘m – moved him. professor sprout’s got the kids back in bed. professor flitwick’s lyin’ down but he says he’ll be all right in a jiffy, an’ professor slughorn says the ministry’s bin informed.’ ‘thank you, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, Stanley_Shunpikeding up at once and turning to look at the group around William_Weasley’s bed. ‘i shall have to see the ministry when they get here. Rubeus_Hagrid, please tell the heads of house – slughorn can represent slytherin – that i want to see them in my office forthwith. i would like you to join us, too.’ as Rubeus_Hagrid nodded, turned and shuffled out of the room again, she looked down at Harry_Potter. ‘before i meet them i would like a quick word with you, Harry_Potter. if you’ll come with me …’ Harry_Potter stood up, murmured, ‘see you in a bit,’ to ron, Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley, and followed professor Minerva_McGonagall back down the ward. the corridors outside were deserted and the only sound was the diStanley_Shunpiket phoenix song. it was several minutes before Harry_Potter became aware that they were not heading for professor Minerva_McGonagall’s office, but for Albus_Dumbledore’s, and another few seconds before he realised that, of course, she had been deputy headmistress … apparently she was now headmistress … so the room behind the garGoyle was now hers … in silence they ascended the moving spiral staircase and entered the circular office. he did not know what he had expected: that the room would be draped in black, perhaps, or even that Albus_Dumbledore’s body might be lying there. in fact, it looked almost exactly as it had done when he and Albus_Dumbledore had left it mere hours previously: the silver instruments whirring and puffing on their spindle-legged tables, gryffindor’s sword in its glass case gleaming in the moonlight, the sorting hat on a shelf behind the desk. but Fawkes’s perch stood empty; he was still crying his lament to the grounds. and a new portrait had joined the ranks of the dead headmasters and headmistresses of hogwarts … Albus_Dumbledore was slumbering in a golden frame over the desk, his half- moon spectacles perched upon his crooked nose, looking peaceful and untroubled. after glancing once at this portrait, professor Minerva_McGonagall made an odd movement as though steeling herself, then rounded the desk to look at Harry_Potter, her face taut and lined. ‘Harry_Potter,’ she said, ‘i would like to know what you and professor Albus_Dumbledore were doing this evening when you left the school.’ ‘i can’t tell you that, professor,’ said Harry_Potter. he had expected the question and had his answer ready. it had been here, in this very room, that Albus_Dumbledore had told him that he was to confide the contents of their lessons to nobody butRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘Harry_Potter, it might be important,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘it is,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘very, but he didn’t want me to tell anyone.’ professor Minerva_McGonagall glared at him. ‘potter’ (Harry_Potter registered the renewed use of his surname) ‘in the light of professor Albus_Dumbledore’s death, i think you must see that the situation has changed somewhat –’ ‘i don’t think so,’ said Harry_Potter, shrugging. ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore never told me to stop following his orders if he died.’ ‘but –’ ‘there’s one thing you should know before the ministry gets here, though. madam Rosmerta’s under the imperius curse, she was helping malfoy and the death eaters, that’s how the necklace and the poisoned mead –’ ‘Rosmerta?’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall incredulously, but before she could go on, there was a knock on the door behind them and professors sprout, flitwick and slughorn traipsed into the room, followed by Rubeus_Hagrid, who was still weeping copiously, his huge frame trembling with grief. ‘snape!’ ejaculated slughorn, who looked the most shaken, pale and sweating. ‘snape! i taught him! i thought i knew him!’ but before any of them could respond to this, a sharp voice spoke from high on the wall: a sallow-faced wizard with a short black fringe had just walked back into his empty canvas. ‘Minerva_McGonagall, the minister will be here within seconds, he has just disapparated from the ministry.’ ‘thank you, Everard,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, and she turned quickly to her teachers. ‘i want to talk about what happens to hogwarts before he gets here,’ she said quickly. ‘personally, i am not convinced that the school should reopen next year. the death of the headmaster at the hands of one of our colleagues is a terrible stain upon hogwarts’ history. it is horrible.’ ‘i am sure Albus_Dumbledore would have wanted the school to remain open,’ said professor sprout. ‘i feel that if a single pupil wants to come, then the school ought to remain open for that pupil.’ ‘but will we have a single pupil after this?’ said slughorn, now dabbing his sweating brow with a silken handkerchief. ‘parents will want to keep their children at home and i can’t say i blame them. personally, i don’t think we’re in more danger at hogwarts than we are anywhere else, but you can’t expect mothers to think like that. they’ll want to keep their families together, it’s only natural.’ ‘i agree,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘and in any case, it is not true to say that Albus_Dumbledore never envisaged a situation in which hogwarts might close. when the chamber of secrets reopened he considered the closure of the school – and i must say that professor Albus_Dumbledore’s murder is more disturbing to me than the idea of slytherin’s monster living undetected in the bowels of the castle …’ ‘we must consult the governors,’ said professor flitwick in his squeaky little voice; he had a large bruise on his forehead but seemed otherwise unscathed by his collapse in snape’s office. ‘we must follow the established procedures. a decision should not be made hastily.’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, you haven’t said anything,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘what are your views, ought hogwarts to remain open?’ Rubeus_Hagrid, who had been weeping silently into his large spotted handkerchief throughout this conversation, now raised puffy red eyes and croaked, ‘i dunno, professor … that’s fer the heads of house an’ the headmistress ter decide …’ ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore always valued your views,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall kindly, ‘and so do i.’ ‘well, i’m stayin’,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, fat tears still leaking out of the corners of his eyes and trickling down into his tangled beard. ‘it’s me home, it’s bin me home since i was thirteen. an’ if there’s kids who wan’ me ter teach ’em, i’ll do it. but … i dunno … hogwarts without Albus_Dumbledore …’ he gulped and disappeared behind his handkerchief once more, and there was silence. ‘very well,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, glancing out of the window at the grounds, checking to see whether the minister was yet approaching, ‘then i must agree with Filius_Flitwick that the right thing to do is to consult the governors, who will take the final decision. ‘now, as to getting students home … there is an argument for doing it sooner rather than later. we could arrange for the hogwarts express to come tomorrow if necessary –’ ‘what about Albus_Dumbledore’s funeral?’ said Harry_Potter, speaking at last. ‘well …’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, losing a little of her briskness as her voice shook, ‘i – i know that it was Albus_Dumbledore’s wish to be laid to rest here, at hogwarts –’ ‘then that’s what’ll happen, isn’t it?’ said Harry_Potter fiercely. ‘if the ministry thinks it appropriate,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘no other headmaster or headmistress has ever been –’ ‘no other headmaster or headmistress ever gave more to this school,’ growled Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘hogwarts should be Albus_Dumbledore’s final resting place,’ said professor flitwick. ‘absolutely,’ said professor sprout. ‘and in that case,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘you shouldn’t send the students home until the funeral’s over. they’ll want to say –’ the last word caught in his throat, but professor sprout completed the sentence for him. ‘goodbye.’ ‘well said,’ squeaked professor flitwick. ‘well said indeed! our students should pay tribute, it is fitting. we can arrange transport home afterwards.’ ‘seconded,’ barked professor sprout. ‘i suppose … yes …’ said slughorn in a rather agitated voice, while Rubeus_Hagrid let out a strangled sob of assent. ‘he’s coming,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall suddenly, gazing down into the grounds. ‘the minister … and by the looks of it, he’s brought a delegation …’ ‘can i leave, professor?’ said Harry_Potter at once. he had no desire at all to see, or be interrogated by, Rufus_Scrimgeour scrimgeour tonight. ‘you may,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, ‘and quickly.’ she strode towards the door and held it open for him. he sped down the spiral staircase and off along the deserted corridor; he had left his invisibility cloak at the top of the astronomy tower, but it did not matter; there was nobody in the corridors to see him pass, not even filch, Mrs_Norris or Peeves. he did not meet another soul until he turned into the passage leading to the gryffindor common room. ‘is it true?’ whispered the Fat_Lady as he approached her. ‘is it really true? Albus_Dumbledore – dead?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. she let out a wail and, without waiting for the password, swung forwards to admit him. as Harry_Potter had suspected it would be, the common room was jam-packed. the room fell silent as he climbed through the portrait hole. he saw Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan sitting in a group nearby: this meant that the dormitory must be empty, or nearly so. without speaking to anybody, without making eye- contact at all, Harry_Potter walked straight across the room and through the door to the boys’ dormitories. as he had Hope_Howelld,Ronald_Weasleywas waiting for him, still fully dressed, sitting on his bed. Harry_Potter sat down on his own four-poster and, for a moment, they simply stared at each other. ‘they’re talking about closing the school,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘lupin said they would,’ said ron. there was a pause. ‘so?’ saidRonald_Weasleyin a very low voice, as though he thought the furniture might be listening in. ‘did you find one? did you get it? a – a horcrux?’ Harry_Potter shook his head. all that had taken place around that black lake seemed like an old nightmare now; had it really happened, and only hours ago? ‘you didn’t get it?’ said ron, looking crestfallen. ‘it wasn’t there?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘someone had already taken it and left a fake in its place.’ ‘already taken –?’ wordlessly, Harry_Potter pulled the fake locket from his pocket, opened it and passed it to ron. the full story could wait … it did not matter tonight … nothing mattered except the end, the end of their pointless adventure, the end of Albus_Dumbledore’s life … ‘Regulus_Black,’ whispered ron, ‘but who was that?’ ‘dunno,’ said Harry_Potter, lying back on his bed fully clothed and staring blankly upwards. he felt no curiosity at all about Regulus_Black: he doubted that he would ever feel curious again. as he lay there, he became aware suddenly that the grounds were silent. Fawkes had stopped singing. and he knew, without knowing how he knew it, that the phoenix had gone, had left hogwarts for good, just as Albus_Dumbledore had left the school, had left the world … had left Harry_Potter. 