— chapter sixteen — a very frosty christmas ‘so snape was offering to help him? he was definitely offering to help him?’ ‘if you ask that once more,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i’m going to stick this sprout –’ ‘i’m only checking!’ said ron. they were Stanley_Shunpikeding alone at the burrow’s kitchen sink, peeling a mountain of sprouts for mrs weasley. snow was drifting past the window in front of them. ‘yes, snape was offering to help him!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he said he’d promised malfoy’s mother to protect him, that he’d made an unbreakable oath or something –’ ‘an unbreakable vow?’ said ron, looking stunned. ‘nah, he can’t have … are you sure?’ ‘yes, i’m sure,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘why, what does it mean?’ ‘well, you can’t break an unbreakable vow …’ ‘i’d worked that much out for myself, funnily enough. what happens if you break it, then?’ ‘you die,’ saidRonald_Weasleysimply. ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley tried to get me to make one when i was about five. i nearly did, too, i was holding hands with Fred_Weasley and everything when dad found us. he went mental,’ said ron, with a reminiscent gleam in his eyes. ‘only time i’ve ever seen dad as angry as mum. Fred_Weasley reckons his left buttock has never been the same since.’ ‘yeah, well, passing over Fred_Weasley’s left buttock –’ ‘i beg your pardon?’ said Fred_Weasley’s voice as the twins entered the kitchen. ‘aaah, George_Weasley, look at this. they’re using knives and everything. bless them.’ ‘i’ll be seventeen in two and a bit months’ time,’ saidRonald_Weasleygrumpily, ‘and then i’ll be able to do it by Magic_goblin!’ ‘but meanwhile,’ said George_Weasley, sitting down at the kitchen table and putting his feet up on it, ‘we can enjoy watching you demonstrate the correct use of a – whoops-a-daisy.’ ‘you made me do that!’ saidRonald_Weasleyangrily, sucking his cut thumb. ‘you wait,    when i’m seventeen –’ ‘i’m sure you’ll dazzle us all with hitherto unsuspected Magic_goblinal skills,’ yawned Fred_Weasley. ‘and speaking of hitherto unsuspected skills, Ronald_Weasley,’ said George_Weasley, ‘what is this we hear from Ginevra_Weasley about you and a young lady called – unless our information is faulty – Lavender_Brown brown?’Ronald_Weasleyturned a little pink, but did not look displeased as he turned back to the sprouts. ‘mind your own business.’ ‘what a snappy retort,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘i really don’t know how you think of them. no, what we wanted to know was … how did it happen?’ ‘what d’you mean?’ ‘did she have an accident or something?’ ‘what?’ ‘well, how did she sustain such extensive brain damage? careful, now!’ mrs weasley entered the room just in time to seeRonald_Weasleythrow the sprouts knife at Fred_Weasley, who turned it into a paper aeroplane with one lazy flick of his wand. ‘ron!’ she said furiously. ‘don’t you ever let me see you throwing knives again!’ ‘i won’t,’ said ron, ‘let you see,’ he added under his breath, as he turned back to the sprout mountain. ‘Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley, i’m sorry, dears, but Remus_Lupin is arriving tonight, so William_Weasley will have to squeeze in with you two!’ ‘no problem,’ said George_Weasley. ‘then, as Charles_Weasley isn’t coming home, that just leaves Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyin the attic, and if Fleur_Delacour shares with Ginevra_Weasley –’ ‘– that’ll make Ginevra_Weasley’s christmas –’ muttered Fred_Weasley. ‘– everyone should be comfortable. well, they’ll have a bed, anyway,’ said mrs weasley, sounding slightly harassed. ‘Percy_Weasley definitely not showing his ugly face, then?’ asked Fred_Weasley. mrs weasley turned away before she answered. ‘no, he’s busy, i expect, at the ministry.’ ‘or he’s the world’s biggest prat,’ said Fred_Weasley, as mrs weasley left the kitchen. ‘one of the two. well, let’s get going, then, George_Weasley.’ ‘what are you two up to?’ asked ron. ‘can’t you help us with these sprouts? you could just use your wand and then we’ll be free, too!’ ‘no, i don’t think we can do that,’ said Fred_Weasley seriously. ‘it’s very character- building stuff, learning to peel sprouts without Magic_goblin, makes you appreciate how difficult it is for muggles and squibs –’ ‘– and if you want people to help you, ron,’ added George_Weasley, throwing the paper aeroplane at him, ‘i wouldn’t chuck knives at them. just a little hint. we’re off to the village, there’s a very pretty girl working in the paper shop who thinks my card tricks are something marvellous … almost like real Magic_goblin …’ ‘gits,’ saidRonald_Weasleydarkly, watching Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley setting off across the snowy yard. ‘would’ve only taken them ten seconds and then we could’ve gone, too.’ ‘i couldn’t,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i promised Albus_Dumbledore i wouldn’t wander off while i’m staying here.’ ‘oh, yeah,’ said ron. he peeled a few more sprouts and then said, ‘are you going to tell Albus_Dumbledore what you heard snape and malfoy saying to each other?’ ‘yep,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i’m going to tell anyone who can put a stop to it and Albus_Dumbledore’s top of the list. i might have another word with your dad, too.’ ‘pity you didn’t hear what malfoy’s actually doing, though.’ ‘i couldn’t have done, could i? that was the whole point, he was refusing to tell snape.’ there was silence for a moment or two, thenRonald_Weasleysaid, ‘course, you know what they’ll all say? dad and Albus_Dumbledore and all of them? they’ll say snape isn’t really trying to help malfoy, he was just trying to find out what malfoy’s up to.’ ‘they didn’t hear him,’ said Harry_Potter flatly. ‘no one’s that good an actor, not even snape.’ ‘yeah … i’m just saying, though,’ said ron. Harry_Potter turned to face him, frowning. ‘you think i’m right, though?’ ‘yeah, i do!’ saidRonald_Weasleyhastily. ‘seriously, i do! but they’re all convinced snape’s in the order, aren’t they?’ Harry_Potter said nothing. it had already occurred to him that this would be the most likely objection to his new evidence; he could hear Hermione_Granger now: ‘obviously, Harry_Potter, he was pretending to offer help so he could trick malfoy into telling him what he’s doing …’ this was pure imagination, however, as he had had no opportunity to tell Hermione_Granger what he had overheard. she had disappeared from slughorn’s party before he returned to it, or so he had been informed by an irate mclaggen, and she had already gone to bed by the time he returned to the common room. as he andRonald_Weasleyhad left for the burrow early the next day, he had barely had time to wish her a happy christmas and to tell her that he had some very important news when they got back from the holidays. he was not entirely sure that she had heard him, though;Ronald_Weasleyand Lavender_Brown had been saying a thoroughly non-verbal goodbye just behind him at the time. still, even Hermione_Granger would not be able to deny one thing: malfoy was definitely up to something, and snape knew it, so Harry_Potter felt fully justified in saying ‘i told you so’, which he had done several times toRonald_Weasleyalready. Harry_Potter did not get the chance to speak to mr weasley, who was working very long hours at the ministry, until christmas eve night. the weasleys and their guests were sitting in the living room, which Ginevra_Weasley had decorated so lavishly that it was rather like sitting in a paper-chain explosion. Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleywere the only ones who knew that the angel on top of the tree was actually a garden gnome that had bitten Fred_Weasley on the ankle as he pulled up carrots for christmas dinner. stupefied, painted gold, stuffed into a miniature tutu and with small wings glued to its back, it glowered down at them all, the ugliest angel Harry_Potter had ever seen, with a large bald head like a potato and rather hairy feet. they were all supposed to be listening to a christmas broadcast by mrs weasley’s favourite singer, celestina warbeck, whose voice was warbling out of the large wooden wireless. Fleur_Delacour, who seemed to find celestina very dull, was talking so loudly in the corner that a scowling mrs weasley kept pointing her wand at the volume control, so that celestina grew louder and louder. under cover of a particularly jazzy number called ‘a cauldron full of hot, strong love’, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley started a game of exploding snap with Ginevra_Weasley.Ronald_Weasleykept shooting William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour covert looks, as though hoping to pick up tips. meanwhile Remus_Lupin lupin, who was thinner and more ragged-looking than ever, was sitting beside the fire, staring into its depths as though he could not hear celestina’s voice. ‘oh, come and stir my cauldron, and if you do it right i’ll boil you up some hot, strong love to keep you warm tonight.’  ‘we danced to this when we were eighteen!’ said mrs weasley, wiping her eyes on her knitting. ‘do you remember, Arthur_Weasley?’ ‘mphf?’ said mr weasley, whose head had been nodding over the satsuma he was peeling. ‘oh yes … marvellous tune …’ with an effort he sat up a little straighter and looked round at Harry_Potter, who was sitting next to him. ‘sorry about this,’ he said, jerking his head towards the wireless as celestina broke into the chorus. ‘be over soon.’ ‘no problem,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning. ‘has it been busy at the ministry?’ ‘very,’ said mr weasley. ‘i wouldn’t mind if we were getting anywhere, but of the three arrests we’ve made in the last couple of months, i doubt that one of them is a genuine death eater – only don’t repeat that, Harry_Potter,’ he added quickly, looking much more awake all of a sudden. ‘they’re not still holding Stanley_Shunpike shunpike, are they?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘i’m afraid so,’ said mr weasley. ‘i know Albus_Dumbledore’s tried appealing directly to scrimgeour about Stanley_Shunpike … i mean, anybody who has actually interviewed him agrees that he’s about as much a death eater as this satsuma … but the top levels want to look as though they’re making some progress, and “three arrests” sounds better than “three mistaken arrests and releases” … but again, this is all top secret …’ ‘i won’t say anything,’ said Harry_Potter. he hesitated for a moment, wondering how best to embark on what he wanted to say; as he marshalled his thoughts, celestina warbeck began a ballad called ‘you charmed the heart right out of me’. ‘mr weasley, you know what i told you at the station when we were setting off for school?’ ‘i checked, Harry_Potter,’ said mr weasley at once. ‘i went and searched the malfoys’ house. there was nothing, either broken or whole, that shouldn’t have been there.’ ‘yeah, i know, i saw in the prophet that you’d looked … but this is something different … well, something more …’ and he told mr weasley everything he had overheard between malfoy and snape. as Harry_Potter spoke, he saw lupin’s head turn a little towards him, taking in every word. when he had finished, there was silence, except for celestina’s crooning.   ‘oh, my poor heart, where has it gone? it’s left me for a spell …’ ‘has it occurred to you, Harry_Potter,’ said mr weasley, ‘that snape was simply pretending –’ ‘pretending to offer help, so that he could find out what malfoy’s up to?’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘yeah, i thought you’d say that. but how do we know?’ ‘it isn’t our business to know,’ said lupin unexpectedly. he had turned his back on the fire now, and faced Harry_Potter across mr weasley. ‘it’s Albus_Dumbledore’s business. Albus_Dumbledore trusts Severus_Snape, and that ought to be good enough for all of us.’ ‘but,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘just say – just say Albus_Dumbledore’s wrong about snape –’ ‘people have said it, many times. it comes down to whether or not you trust Albus_Dumbledore’s judgement. i do; therefore, i trust Severus_Snape.’ ‘but Albus_Dumbledore can make mistakes,’ argued Harry_Potter. ‘he says it himself. and you –’ he looked lupin straight in the eye. ‘– do you honestly like snape?’ ‘i neither like nor dislike Severus_Snape,’ said lupin. ‘no, Harry_Potter, i am speaking the truth,’ he added, as Harry_Potter pulled a sceptical expression. ‘we shall never be bosom friends, perhaps; after all that happened between James_Potter_I and Sirius_Black and Severus_Snape, there is too much bitterness there. but i do not forget that during the year i taught at hogwarts, Severus_Snape made the wolfsBane potion for me every month, made it perfectly, so that i did not have to suffer as i usually do at the full moon.’ ‘but he “accidenTall_gobliny” let it slip that you’re a werewolf, so you had to leave!’ said Harry_Potter angrily. lupin shrugged. ‘the news would have leaked out anyway. we both know he wanted my job, but he could have wreaked much worse damage on me by tampering with the potion. he kept me healthy. i must be grateful.’ ‘maybe he didn’t dare mess with the potion with Albus_Dumbledore watching him!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you are determined to hate him, Harry_Potter,’ said lupin with a faint smile. ‘and i underStanley_Shunpiked; with James_Potter_I as your father, with Sirius_Black as your godfather, you have inherited an old prejudice. by all means tell Albus_Dumbledore what you have told Arthur_Weasley and me, but do not expect him to share your view of the  matter; do not even expect him to be surprised by what you tell him. it might have been on Albus_Dumbledore’s orders that Severus_Snape questioned Draco_Malfoy.’ ‘…and now you’ve torn it quite apart i’ll thank you to give back my heart!’ celestina ended her song on a very long, high-pitched note and loud applause issued out of the wireless, which mrs weasley joined in with enthusiastically. ‘eez eet over?’ said Fleur_Delacour loudly. ‘thank goodness, what an ’orrible –’ ‘shall we have a nightcap, then?’ asked mr weasley loudly, leaping to his feet. ‘who wants egg-nog?’ ‘what have you been up to lately?’ Harry_Potter asked lupin, as mr weasley bustled off to fetch the egg-nog and everybody else stretched and broke into conversation. ‘oh, i’ve been underground,’ said lupin. ‘almost literally. that’s why i haven’t been able to write, Harry_Potter; sending letters to you would have been something of a give-away.’ ‘what do you mean?’ ‘i’ve been living among my fellows, my equals,’ said lupin. ‘werewolves,’ he added, at Harry_Potter’s look of incomprehension. ‘nearly all of them are on voldemort’s side. Albus_Dumbledore wanted a spy and here i was … ready-made.’ he sounded a little bitter, and perhaps realised it, for he smiled more warmly as he went on, ‘i am not complaining; it is necessary work and who can do it better than i? however, it has been difficult gaining their trust. i bear the unmistakeable signs of having tried to live among wizards, you see, whereas they have shunned normal society and live on the margins, stealing – and sometimes killing – to eat.’ ‘how come they like voldemort?’ ‘they think that, under his rule, they will have a better life,’ said lupin. ‘and it is hard to argue with greyback out there …’ ‘who’s greyback?’ ‘you haven’t heard of him?’ lupin’s hands closed convulsively in his lap. ‘Fenrir_Greyback greyback is, perhaps, the most savage werewolf alive today. he regards it as his mission in life to bite and to contaminate as many people as possible; he wants to create enough werewolves to overcome the wizards. voldemort has promised him prey in return for his services. greyback   specialises in children … bite them young, he says, and raise them away from their parents, raise them to hate normal wizards. voldemort has threatened to unleash him upon people’s sons and daughters; it is a threat that usually produces good results.’ lupin paused and then said, ‘it was greyback who bit me.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter, astonished. ‘when – when you were a kid, you mean?’ ‘yes. my father had offended him. i did not know, for a very long time, the identity of the werewolf who had attacked me; i even felt pity for him, thinking that he had had no control, knowing by then how it felt to transform. but greyback is not like that. at the full moon he positions himself close to victims, ensuring that he is near enough to strike. he plans it all. and this is the man voldemort is using to marshal the werewolves. i cannot pretend that my particular brand of reasoned argument is making much headway against greyback’s insistence that we werewolves deserve blood, that we ought to revenge ourselves on normal people.’ ‘but you are normal!’ said Harry_Potter fiercely. ‘you’ve just got a – a problem –’ lupin burst out laughing. ‘sometimes you remind me a lot of James_Potter_I. he called it my “furry little problem” in company. many people were under the impression that i owned a badly behaved rabbit.’ he accepted a glass of egg-nog from mr weasley with a word of thanks, looking slightly more cheerful. Harry_Potter, meanwhile, felt a rush of excitement: this last mention of his father had reminded him that there was something he had been looking forward to asking lupin. ‘have you ever heard of someone called the Severus_Snape?’ ‘the half-blood what?’ ‘prince,’ said Harry_Potter, watching him closely for signs of recognition. ‘there are no wizarding princes,’ said lupin, now smiling. ‘is this a title you’re thinking of adopting? i should have thought being the “chosen one” would be enough.’ ‘it’s nothing to do with me!’ said Harry_Potter indignantly. ‘the Severus_Snape is someone who used to go to hogwarts, i’ve got his old potions book. he wrote spells all over it, spells he invented. one of them was levicorpus –’ ‘oh, that one had a great vogue during my time at hogwarts,’ said lupin reminiscently. ‘there were a few months in my fifth year when you couldn’t move for being hoisted into the air by your ankle.’ ‘my dad used it,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i saw him in the pensieve, he used it on snape.’ he tried to sound casual, as though this was a throwaway comment of no real importance, but he was not sure he had achieved the right effect; lupin’s smile was a little too underStanley_Shunpikeding. ‘yes,’ he said, ‘but he wasn’t the only one. as i say, it was very popular … you know how these spells come and go …’ ‘but it sounds like it was invented while you were at school,’ Harry_Potter persisted. ‘not necessarily,’ said lupin. ‘jinxes go in and out of fashion like everything else.’ he looked into Harry_Potter’s face and then said quietly, ‘James_Potter_I was a pure-blood, Harry_Potter, and i promise you, he never asked us to call him “prince”.’ abandoning pretence, Harry_Potter said, ‘and it wasn’t Sirius_Black? or you?’ ‘definitely not.’ ‘oh.’ Harry_Potter stared into the fire. ‘i just thought – well, he’s helped me out a lot in potions classes, the prince has.’ ‘how old is this book, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i dunno, i’ve never checked.’ ‘well, perhaps that will give you some clue as to when the prince was at hogwarts,’ said lupin. shortly after this, Fleur_Delacour decided to imitate celestina singing ‘a cauldron full of hot, strong love’, which was taken by everyone, once they had glimpsed mrs weasley’s expression, to be the cue to go to bed. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyclimbed all the way up to ron’s attic bedroom, where a camp bed had been added for Harry_Potter.Ronald_Weasleyfell asleep almost immediately, but Harry_Potter delved into his trunk and pulled out his copy of advanced potion-making before getting into bed. there he turned its pages, searching, until he finally found, at the front of the book, the date that it had been published. it was nearly fifty years old. neither his father, nor his father’s friends, had been at hogwarts fifty years ago. feeling disappointed, Harry_Potter threw the book back into his trunk, turned off the lamp and rolled over, thinking of werewolves and snape, Stanley_Shunpike shunpike and the Severus_Snape, and finally falling into an uneasy sleep full of creeping shadows and the cries of bitten children … ‘she’s got to be joking …’ Harry_Potter woke with a start to find a bulging stocking lying over the end of his bed. he put on his glasses and looked around; the tiny window was almost completely obscured with snow and in front of itRonald_Weasleywas sitting bolt upright in bed and examining what appeared to be a thick gold chain. ‘what’s that?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘it’s from Lavender_Brown,’ said ron, sounding revolted. ‘she can’t honestly think i’d wear …’ Harry_Potter looked more closely and let out a shout of laughter. dangling from the chain in large gold letters were the words ‘my sweetheart’. ‘nice,’ he said. ‘classy. you should definitely wear it in front of Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley.’ ‘if you tell them,’ said ron, shoving the necklace out of sight under his pillow, ‘i – i – i’ll –’ ‘stutter at me?’ said Harry_Potter, grinning. ‘come on, would i?’ ‘how could she think i’d like something like that, though?’Ronald_Weasleydemanded of thin air, looking rather shocked. ‘well, think back,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘have you ever let it slip that you’d like to go out in public with the words “my sweetheart” round your neck?’ ‘well … we don’t really talk much,’ said ron. ‘it’s mainly …’ ‘snogging,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, yeah,’ said ron. he hesitated a moment, then said, ‘is Hermione_Granger really going out with mclaggen?’ ‘i dunno,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘they were at slughorn’s party together, but i don’t think it went that well.’Ronald_Weasleylooked slightly more cheerful as he delved deeper into his stocking. Harry_Potter’s presents included a sweater with a large golden snitch worked on to the front, hand-knitted by mrs weasley, a large box of weasleys’ wizard wheezes products from the twins and a slightly damp, mouldy-smelling package which came with a label reading: ‘to master, from Kreacher’. Harry_Potter stared at it. ‘d’you reckon this is safe to open?’ he asked. ‘can’t be anything dangerous, all our mail’s still being searched at the ministry,’ replied ron, though he was eyeing the parcel suspiciously. ‘i didn’t think of giving Kreacher anything! do people usually give their house-elves christmas presents?’ asked Harry_Potter, prodding the parcel cautiously. ‘Hermione_Granger would,’ said ron. ‘but let’s wait and see what it is before you start feeling guilty.’ a moment later, Harry_Potter had given a loud yell and leapt out of his camp bed; the package contained a large number of maggots. ‘nice,’ said ron, roaring with laughter. ‘very thoughtful.’ ‘i’d rather have them than that necklace,’ said Harry_Potter, which soberedRonald_Weasleyup at once. everybody was wearing new sweaters when they all sat down for christmas lunch, everyone except Fleur_Delacour (on whom, it appeared, mrs weasley had not wanted to waste one) and mrs weasley herself, who was sporting a brand new midnight-blue witch’s hat glittering with what looked like tiny starlike diamonds, and a spectacular golden necklace. ‘Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley gave them to me! aren’t they beautiful?’ ‘well, we find we appreciate you more and more, mum, now we’re washing our own socks,’ said George_Weasley, waving an airy hand. ‘parsnips, Remus_Lupin?’ ‘Harry_Potter, you’ve got a maggot in your hair,’ said Ginevra_Weasley cheerfully, leaning across the table to pick it out; Harry_Potter felt goosebumps erupt up his neck that had nothing to do with the maggot. ‘’ow ’orrible,’ said Fleur_Delacour, with an affected little shudder. ‘yes, isn’t it?’ said ron. ‘gravy, Fleur_Delacour?’ in his eagerness to help her, he knocked the gravy boat flying; William_Weasley waved his wand and the gravy soared up in the air and returned meekly to the boat. ‘you are as bad as zat tonks,’ said Fleur_Delacour to ron, when she had finished kissing William_Weasley in thanks. ‘she is always knocking –’ ‘i invited dear tonks to come along today,’ said mrs weasley, setting down the carrots with unnecessary force and glaring at Fleur_Delacour. ‘but she wouldn’t come. have you spoken to her lately, Remus_Lupin?’ ‘no, i haven’t been in contact with anybody very much,’ said lupin. ‘but tonks has got her own family to go to, hasn’t she?’ ‘hmmm,’ said mrs weasley. ‘maybe. i got the impression she was planning to spend christmas alone, actually.’ she gave lupin an annoyed look, as though it was all his fault she was getting Fleur_Delacour for a daughter-in-law instead of tonks, but Harry_Potter, glancing across at Fleur_Delacour, who was now feeding William_Weasley bits of turkey off her own fork, thought that mrs weasley was fighting a long-lost battle. he was, however, reminded of a question he had with regard to tonks, and who better to ask than lupin, the man who knew all about patronuses? ‘tonks’s patronus has changed its form,’ he told him. ‘snape said so, anyway. i didn’t know that could happen. why would your patronus change?’ lupin took his time chewing his turkey and swallowing before saying slowly, ‘sometimes … a great shock … an emotional upheaval …’ ‘it looked big, and it had four legs,’ said Harry_Potter, struck by a sudden thought and lowering his voice. ‘hey … it couldn’t be –?’ ‘Arthur_Weasley!’ said mrs weasley suddenly. she had risen from her chair; her hand was pressed over her heart and she was staring out of the kitchen window. ‘Arthur_Weasley – it’s Percy_Weasley!’ ‘what?’ mr weasley looked round. everybody looked quickly at the window; Ginevra_Weasley stood up for a better view. there, sure enough, was Percy_Weasley weasley, striding across the snowy yard, his horn-rimmed glasses glinting in the sunlight. he was not, however, alone. ‘Arthur_Weasley, he’s – he’s with the minister!’ and sure enough, the man Harry_Potter had seen in the daily prophet was following along in Percy_Weasley’s wake, limping slightly, his mane of greying hair and his black cloak flecked with snow. before any of them could say anything, before mr and mrs weasley could do more than exchange stunned looks, the back door opened and there stood Percy_Weasley. there was a moment’s painful silence. then Percy_Weasley said rather stiffly, ‘merry christmas, mother.’ ‘oh, Percy_Weasley!’ said mrs weasley, and she threw herself into his arms. Rufus_Scrimgeour scrimgeour paused in the doorway, leaning on his walking stick and smiling as he observed this affecting scene. ‘you must forgive this intrusion,’ he said, when mrs weasley looked round at him, beaming and wiping her eyes. ‘Percy_Weasley and i were in the vicinity – working, you know – and he couldn’t resist dropping in and seeing you all.’ but Percy_Weasley showed no sign of wanting to greet any of the rest of the family. he stood, poker-straight and awkward-looking, and stared over everybody else’s heads. mr weasley, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were all observing him, stony- faced. ‘please, come in, sit down, minister!’ fluttered mrs weasley, straightening her hat. ‘have a little purkey, or some tooding … i mean –’ ‘no, no, my dear Molly_Weasley,’ said scrimgeour. Harry_Potter guessed that he had checked on her name with Percy_Weasley before they entered the house. ‘i don’t want to intrude, wouldn’t be here at all if Percy_Weasley hadn’t wanted to see you all so badly …’ ‘oh, Percy_Weasley!’ said mrs weasley tearfully, reaching up to kiss him. ‘… we’ve only looked in for five minutes, so i’ll have a stroll around the yard while you catch up with Percy_Weasley. no, no, i assure you i don’t want to butt in! well, if anybody cared to show me your charming garden … ah, that young man’s finished, why doesn’t he take a stroll with me?’ the atmosphere around the table changed Percy_Weasleyptibly. everybody looked from scrimgeour to Harry_Potter. nobody seemed to find scrimgeour’s pretence that he did not know Harry_Potter’s name convincing, or find it natural that he should be chosen to accompany the minister around the garden when Ginevra_Weasley, Fleur_Delacour and George_Weasley also had clean plates. ‘yeah, all right,’ said Harry_Potter into the silence. he was not fooled; for all scrimgeour’s talk that they had just been in the area, that Percy_Weasley wanted to look up his family, this must be the real reason that they had come, so that scrimgeour could speak to Harry_Potter alone. ‘it’s fine,’ he said quietly, as he passed lupin, who had half-risen from his chair. ‘fine,’ he added, as mr weasley opened his mouth to speak. ‘wonderful!’ said scrimgeour, Stanley_Shunpikeding back to let Harry_Potter pass through the door ahead of him. ‘we’ll just take a turn around the garden and then Percy_Weasley and i’ll be off. carry on, everyone!’ Harry_Potter walked across the yard towards the weasleys’ overgrown, snow- covered garden, scrimgeour limping slightly at his side. he had, Harry_Potter knew, been head of the auror office; he looked tough and battle-scarred, very different from portly fudge in his bowler hat. ‘charming,’ said scrimgeour, stopping at the garden fence and looking out over the snowy lawn and the indistinguishable plants. ‘charming.’ Harry_Potter said nothing. he could tell that scrimgeour was watching him. ‘i’ve wanted to meet you for a very long time,’ said scrimgeour, after a few moments. ‘did you know that?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter truthfully. ‘oh yes, for a very long time. but Albus_Dumbledore has been very protective of you,’ said scrimgeour. ‘natural, of course, natural, after what you’ve been through … especially what happened at the ministry …’ he waited for Harry_Potter to say something, but Harry_Potter did not oblige, so he went on, ‘i have been hoping for an occasion to talk to you ever since i gained office, but Albus_Dumbledore has – most underStanley_Shunpikedably, as i say – prevented this.’ still Harry_Potter said nothing, waiting. ‘the rumours that have flown around!’ said scrimgeour. ‘well, of course, we both know how these stories get distorted … all these whispers of a prophecy … of you being the “chosen one” …’ they were getting near it now, Harry_Potter thought, the reason scrimgeour was here. ‘… i assume that Albus_Dumbledore has discussed these matters with you?’ Harry_Potter deliberated, wondering whether he ought to lie or not. he looked at the little gnome prints all around the flower-beds, and the scuffed-up patch that marked the spot where Fred_Weasley had caught the gnome now wearing the tutu at the top of the christmas tree. finally, he decided on the truth … or a bit of it. ‘yeah, we’ve discussed it.’ ‘have you, have you …’ said scrimgeour. Harry_Potter could see, out of the corner of his eyes, scrimgeour squinting at him, so pretended to be very interested in a gnome that had just poked its head out from underneath a frozen rhododendron. ‘and what has Albus_Dumbledore told you, Harry_Potter?’ ‘sorry, but that’s between us,’ said Harry_Potter. he kept his voice as pleasant as he could, and scrimgeour’s tone, too, was light and friendly as he said, ‘oh, of course, if it’s a question of confidences, i wouldn’t want you to divulge … no, no … and in any case, does it really matter whether you are Harry_Potter or not?’ Harry_Potter had to mull that one over for a few seconds before responding. ‘i don’t really know what you mean, minister.’ ‘well, of course, to you it will matter enormously,’ said scrimgeour with a laugh. ‘but to the wizarding community at large … it’s all Percy_Weasleyption, isn’t it? it’s what people believe that’s important.’ Harry_Potter said nothing. he thought he saw, dimly, where they were heading, but he was not going to help scrimgeour get there. the gnome under the rhododendron was now digging for worms at its roots and Harry_Potter kept his eyes fixed upon it. ‘people believe you are Harry_Potter, you see,’ said scrimgeour. ‘they think you quite the hero – which, of course, you are, Harry_Potter, chosen or not! how many times have you faced he who must not be named now? well, anyway,’ he pressed on, without waiting for a reply, ‘the point is, you are a symbol of Hope_Howell for many, Harry_Potter. the idea that there is somebody out there who might be able, who might even be destined, to desTroy he who must not be named – well, naturally, it gives people a lift. and i can’t help but feel that, once you realise this, you might consider it, well, almost a duty, to Stanley_Shunpiked alongside the ministry, and give everyone a boost.’ the gnome had just managed to get hold of a worm. it was now tugging very hard on it, trying to get it out of the frozen ground. Harry_Potter was silent so long that scrimgeour said, looking from Harry_Potter to the gnome, ‘funny little chaps, aren’t they? but what say you, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i don’t exactly underStanley_Shunpiked what you want,’said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘“Stanley_Shunpiked alongside the ministry” … what does that mean?’ ‘oh, well, nothing at all onerous, i assure you,’ said scrimgeour. ‘if you were to be seen popping in and out of the ministry from time to time, for inStanley_Shunpikece, that would give the right impression. and of course, while you were there, you would have ample opportunity to speak to gawain robards, my successor as head of the auror office. Dolores_Umbridge umbridge has told me that you cherish an ambition to become an auror. well, that could be arranged very easily …’ Harry_Potter felt anger bubbling in the pit of his stomach: so Dolores_Umbridge umbridge was still at the ministry, was she? ‘so basically,’ he said, as though he just wanted to clarify a few points, ‘you’d like to give the impression that i’m working for the ministry?’ ‘it would give everyone a lift to think you were more involved, Harry_Potter,’ said scrimgeour, sounding relieved that Harry_Potter had cottoned on so quickly. ‘the “chosen one”, you know … it’s all about giving people Hope_Howell, the feeling that exciting things are happening …’ ‘but if i keep running in and out of the ministry,’ said Harry_Potter, still endeavouring to keep his voice friendly, ‘won’t that seem as though i approve of what the ministry’s up to?’ ‘well,’ said scrimgeour, frowning slightly, ‘well, yes, that’s partly why we’d like –’ ‘no, i don’t think that’ll work,’ said Harry_Potter pleasantly. ‘you see, i don’t like some of the things the ministry’s doing. locking up Stanley_Shunpike shunpike, for inStanley_Shunpikece.’ scrimgeour did not speak for a moment, but his expression hardened inStanley_Shunpiketly. ‘i would not expect you to underStanley_Shunpiked,’ he said, and he was not as successful at keeping anger out of his voice as Harry_Potter had been. ‘these are dangerous times, and certain measures need to be taken. you are sixteen years old –’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s a lot older than sixteen, and he doesn’t think Stanley_Shunpike should be in azkaban either,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you’re making Stanley_Shunpike a scapegoat, just like you want to make me a mascot.’ they looked at each other, long and hard. finally scrimgeour said, with no pretence at warmth, ‘i see. you prefer – like your hero Albus_Dumbledore – to disassociate yourself from the ministry?’ ‘i don’t want to be used,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘some would say it’s your duty to be used by the ministry!’ ‘yeah, and others might say it’s your duty to check people really are death eaters before you chuck them in prison,’ said Harry_Potter, his temper rising now. ‘you’re doing what Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch did. you never get it right, you people, do you? either we’ve got fudge, pretending everything’s lovely while people get murdered right under his nose, or we’ve got you, chucking the wrong people into jail and trying to pretend you’ve got Harry_Potter working for you!’ ‘so you’re not Harry_Potter?’ said scrimgeour. ‘i thought you said it didn’t matter either way?’ said Harry_Potter, with a bitter laugh. ‘not to you, anyway.’ ‘i shouldn’t have said that,’ said scrimgeour quickly. ‘it was tactless –’ ‘no, it was honest,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘one of the only honest things you’ve said to me. you don’t care whether i live or die, but you do care that i help you convince everyone you’re winning the war against voldemort. i haven’t forgotten, minister …’ he raised his right fist. there, shining white on the back of his cold hand, were the scars which Dolores_Umbridge umbridge had forced him to carve into his own flesh: i must not tell lies. ‘i don’t remember you rushing to my defence when i was trying to tell everyone voldemort was back. the ministry wasn’t so keen to be pals last year.’ they stood in silence as icy as the ground beneath their feet. the gnome had finally managed to extricate its worm and was now sucking on it happily, leaning against the bottommost branches of the rhododendron bush. ‘what is Albus_Dumbledore up to?’ said scrimgeour brusquely. ‘where does he go, when he is absent from hogwarts?’ ‘no idea,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘and you wouldn’t tell me if you knew,’ said scrimgeour, ‘would you?’ ‘no, i wouldn’t,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, then, i shall have to see whether i can’t find out by other means.’ ‘you can try,’ said Harry_Potter indifferently. ‘but you seem Clever_gobliner than fudge, so i’d have thought you’d have learned from his mistakes. he tried interfering at hogwarts. you might have noticed he’s not minister any more, but Albus_Dumbledore’s still headmaster. i’d leave Albus_Dumbledore alone, if i were you.’ there was a long pause. ‘well, it is clear to me that he has done a very good job on you,’ said scrimgeour, his eyes cold and hard behind his wire-rimmed glasses. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s man through and through, aren’t you, potter?’ ‘yeah, i am,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘glad we straightened that out.’ and turning his back on the minister for Magic_goblin, he strode back towards the house. 