Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington flamel Albus_Dumbledore had convinced Harry_Potter not to go looking for the mirror of erised again, and for the rest of the christmas holidays the invisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harry_Potter wished he could forget what he’d seen in the mirror as easily, but he couldn’t. he started having nightmares. over and over again he dreamed about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high voice cackled with laughter. “you see, Albus_Dumbledore was right, that mirror could drive you mad,” said Ronald_Weasley when Harry_Potter told him about these dreams. Hermione_Granger, who came back the day before term started, took a different view of things. she was torn between horror at the idea of Harry_Potter being out of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row (“if filch had caught you!”), and disappointment that he hadn’t at least found out who nicolas flamel was. they had almost given up Hope_Howell of ever finding flamel in a library book, even though Harry_Potter was still sure he’d read the name somewhere. once term had started, they were back to skimming through books for ten minutes during their breaks.   Harry_Potter had even less time than the other two, because quidditch practice had started again. wood was working the team harder than ever. even the endless rain that had replaced the snow couldn’t dampen his spirits. the weasleys complained that wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry_Potter was on wood’s side. if they won their next match, against hufflepuff, they would overtake slytherin in the house championship for the first time in seven years. quite apart from wanting to win, Harry_Potter found that he had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after training. then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice session, wood gave the team a bit of bad news. he’d just gotten very angry with the weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretending to fall off their brooms. “will you stop messing around!” he yelled. “that’s exactly the sort of thing that’ll lose us the match! snape’s refereeing this time, and he’ll be looking for any excuse to knock points off gryffindor!” Fred_Weasley really did fall off his broom at these words. “snape’s refereeing?” he spluttered through a mouthful of mud. “when’s he ever refereed a quidditch match? he’s not going to be fair if we might overtake slytherin.” the rest of the team landed next to George_Weasley to complain, too. “it’s not my fault,” said wood. “we’ve just got to make sure we play a clean game, so snape hasn’t got an excuse to pick on us.” which was all very well, thought Harry_Potter, but he had another reason for not wanting snape near him while he was playing quidditch. … the rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usual at the end of practice, but Harry_Potter headed straight back to the gryffindor common room, where he found Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger playing chess. chess was the only thing Hermione_Granger ever lost at, something Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley thought was very good for her. “don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Ronald_Weasley when Harry_Potter sat down next to him, “i need to concen-” he caught sight of Harry_Potter’s face. “what’s the matter with you? you look terrible.” speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Harry_Potter told the other two about snape’s sudden, sinister desire to be a quidditch referee. “don’t play,” said Hermione_Granger at once. “say you’re ill,” said Ronald_Weasley “pretend to break your leg,” Hermione_Granger suggested. “really break your leg,” said Ronald_Weasley “i can’t,” said Harry_Potter. “there isn’t a reserve seeker. if i back out, gryffindor can’t play at all.” at that moment Neville_Longbottom toppled into the common room. how he had managed to climb through the portrait hole was anyone’s guess, because his legs had been stuck together with what they recognized at once as the leg-locker curse. he must have had to bunny hop all the way up to gryffindor tower. everyone fell over laughing except Hermione_Granger, who leapt up and performed the countercurse. Neville_Longbottom’s legs sprang apart and he got to his feet, trembling. “what happened?” Hermione_Granger asked him, leading him over to sit with Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley “malfoy,” said Neville_Longbottom shakily. “i met him outside the library. he said he’d been looking for someone to practice that on.” “go to professor Minerva_McGonagall!” Hermione_Granger urged Neville_Longbottom. “report him!” Neville_Longbottom shook his head. “i don’t want more trouble,” he mumbled. “you’ve got to stand up to him, Neville_Longbottom!” said Ronald_Weasley “he’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier.” “there’s no need to tell me i’m not brave enough to be in gryffindor, malfoy’s already done that,” Neville_Longbottom choked out. Harry_Potter felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a chocolate frog, the very last one from the box Hermione_Granger had given him for christmas. he gave it to Neville_Longbottom, who looked as though he might cry. “you’re worth twelve of malfoy,” Harry_Potter said. “the sorting hat chose you for gryffindor, didn’t it? and where’s malfoy? in stinking slytherin.” Neville_Longbottom’s lips twitched in a weak smile as he unwrapped the frog. “thanks, Harry_Potter … i think i’ll go to bed. … d’you want the card, you collect them, don’t you?” as Neville_Longbottom walked away, Harry_Potter looked at the famous wizard card. “Albus_Dumbledore again,” he said, “he was the first one i ever —” he gasped. he stared at the back of the card. then he looked up at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “i’ve found him!” he whispered. “i’ve found flamel! i told you i’d read the name somewhere before, i read it on the is train coming here — particularly famous for his defeat of the dark wizard grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, nicolas flamel’!” listen to this:  ‘Albus_Dumbledore  Hermione_Granger jumped to her feet. she hadn’t looked so excited since they’d gotten back the marks for their very first piece of homework. “stay there!” she said, and she sprinted up the stairs to the girls’ dormitories. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley barely had time to exchange mystified looks before she was dashing back, an enormous old book in her arms. “i never thought to look in here!” she whispered excitedly. “i got this out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading.” “light?” said Ronald_Weasley but Hermione_Granger told him to be quiet until she’d looked something up, and started flicking frantically through the pages, muttering to herself. at last she found what she was looking for. “i knew it! i knew it!” “are we allowed to speak yet?” said Ronald_Weasley grumpily. Hermione_Granger ignored him. “nicolas flamel,” she whispered dramatically, “is the only known maker of the sorcerer’s stone!” this didn’t have quite the effect she’d expected. “the what?” said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley “oh, honestly, don’t you two read? look — read that, there.” she pushed the book toward them, and Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley read: the ancient study of alchemy is concerned with making the sorcerer’s stone, a legendary substance with astonishing powers. the stone will transform any metal into pure gold. it also produces the elixir of life, which will make the drinker immortal. there have been many reports of the sorcerer’s stone over the centuries, but the only stone currently in existence belongs to mr. nicolas flamel, the noted alchemist and opera lover. mr. flamel, who celebrated his six hundred and sixty- fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in devon with his wife, perenelle (six hundred and fifty-eight). “see?” said Hermione_Granger, when Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley had finished. “the dog must be guarding flamel’s sorcerer’s stone! i bet he asked Albus_Dumbledore to keep it safe for him, because they’re friends and he knew someone was after it, that’s why he wanted the stone moved out of Gringotts_Head_Goblin!” “a stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!” said Harry_Potter. “no wonder snape’s after it! anyone would want it.” “and no wonder we couldn’t find flamel in that study of recent developments in wizardry,” said Ronald_Weasley “he’s not exactly recent if he’s six hundred and sixty-five, is he?” the next morning in defense against the dark arts, while copying down different ways of treating werewolf bites, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley were still discussing what they’d do with a sorcerer’s stone if they had one. it wasn’t until Ronald_Weasley said he’d buy his own quidditch team that Harry_Potter remembered about snape and the coming match. “i’m going to play,” he told Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “if i don’t, all the slytherins will think i’m just too scared to face snape. i’ll show them … it’ll really wipe the sMiles_Bletchley off their faces if we win.” “just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,” said Hermione_Granger. as the match drew nearer, however, Harry_Potter became more     and more nervous, whatever he told Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. the rest of the team wasn’t too calm, either. the idea of overtaking slytherin in the house championship was wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed to, with such a biased referee? Harry_Potter didn’t know whether he was imagining it or not, but he seemed to keep running into snape wherever he went. at times, he even wondered whether snape was following him, trying to catch him on his own. potions lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, snape was so horrible to Harry_Potter. could snape possibly know they’d found out about the sorcerer’s stone? Harry_Potter didn’t see how he could — yet he sometimes had the horrible feeling that snape could read minds. Harry_Potter knew, when they wished him good luck outside the locker rooms the next afternoon, that Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were wondering whether they’d ever see him alive again. this wasn’t what you’d call comforting. Harry_Potter hardly heard a word of wood’s pep talk as he pulled on his quidditch robes and picked up his nimbus two thousand. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, meanwhile, had found a place in the stands next to Neville_Longbottom, who couldn’t understand why they looked so grim and worried, or why they had both brought their wands to the match. little did Harry_Potter know that Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had been secretly practicing the leg-locker curse. they’d gotten the idea from malfoy using it on Neville_Longbottom, and were ready to use it on snape if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Harry_Potter. “now, don’t forget, it’s locomotor mortis,” Hermione_Granger muttered as Ronald_Weasley slipped his wand up his sleeve. “i know,” Ronald_Weasley snapped. “don’t nag.” back in the locker room, wood had taken Harry_Potter aside. “don’t want to pressure you, potter, but if we ever need an early capture of the snitch it’s now. finish the game before snape can favor hufflepuff too much.” “the whole school’s out there!” said Fred_Weasley, peering out of the door. “even — blimey — Albus_Dumbledore’s come to watch!” Harry_Potter’s heart did a somersault.  “Albus_Dumbledore?” he said, dashing to the door to make sure. Fred_Weasley was right. there was no mistaking that silver beard. Harry_Potter could have laughed out loud with relief. he was safe. there was simply no way that snape would dare to try to hurt him if Albus_Dumbledore was watching. perhaps that was why snape was looking so angry as the teams marched onto the field, something that Ronald_Weasley noticed, too. “i’ve never seen snape look so mean,” he told Hermione_Granger. “look — they’re off. ouch!” someone had poked Ronald_Weasley in the back of the head. it was malfoy. “oh, sorry, weasley, didn’t see you there.” malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle. “wonder how long potter’s going to stay on his broom this time? anyone want a bet? what about you, weasley?” Ronald_Weasley didn’t answer; snape had just awarded hufflepuff a penalty because Fred_Weasley had hit a bludger at him. Hermione_Granger, who had all her fingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry_Potter, who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the snitch. “you know how i think they choose people for the gryffindor team?” said malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as snape awarded hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. “it’s people they feel sorry for. see, there’s potter, who’s got no parents, then there’s the weasleys, who’ve got no money — you should be on the team, longbottom, you’ve got no brains.” Neville_Longbottom went bright red but turned in his seat to face malfoy. “i’m worth twelve of you, malfoy,” he stammered. malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but Ronald_Weasley still not daring to take his eyes from the game, said, “you tell him, Neville_Longbottom.” “longbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than weasley, and that’s saying something.” ron’s nerves were already stretched to the breaking point with anxiety about Harry_Potter. “i’m warning you, malfoy — one more word —” “ron!” said Hermione_Granger suddenly, “Harry_Potter — !” “what? where?” Harry_Potter had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gasps and cheers from the crowd. Hermione_Granger stood up, her crossed fingers in her mouth, as Harry_Potter streaked toward the ground like a bullet. “you’re in luck, weasley, potter’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!” said malfoy. Ronald_Weasley snapped. before malfoy knew what was happening, Ronald_Weasley was on top of him, wrestling him to the ground. Neville_Longbottom hesitated, then clambered over the back of his seat to help. “come on, Harry_Potter!” Hermione_Granger screamed, leaping onto her seat to watch as Harry_Potter sped straight at snape — she didn’t even notice malfoy and Ronald_Weasley rolling around under her seat, or the scuffles and yelps coming from the whirl of fists that was Neville_Longbottom, Crabbe, and Goyle. up in the air, snape turned on his broomstick just in time to see something scarlet shoot past him, missing him by inches — the next second, Harry_Potter had pulled out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, the snitch clasped in his hand. the stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one could ever remember the snitch being caught so quickly. “ron! Ronald_Weasley where are you? the game’s over! Harry_Potter’s won! we’ve won! gryffindor is in the lead!” shrieked Hermione_Granger, dancing up and down on her seat and hugging Parvati_Patil in the row in front. Harry_Potter jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground. he couldn’t believe it. he’d done it — the game was over; it had barely lasted five minutes. as gryffindors came spilling onto the field, he saw snape land nearby, white-faced and tight- lipped — then Harry_Potter felt a hand on his shoulder and looked up into Albus_Dumbledore’s smiling face. “well done,” said Albus_Dumbledore quietly, so that only Harry_Potter could hear. “nice to see you haven’t been brooding about that mirror … been keeping busy … excellent …” snape spat bitterly on the ground. *  *  * Harry_Potter left the locker room alone some time later, to take his nimbus two thousand back to the broomshed. he couldn’t ever remember feeling happier. he’d really done something to be proud of now — no one could say he was just a famous name any more. the evening air had never smelled so sweet. he walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour in his head, which was a happy blur: gryffindors running to lift him onto their shoulders; Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger in the distance, jumping up and down, Ronald_Weasley cheering through a heavy nosebleed. Harry_Potter had reached the shed. he leaned against the wooden door and looked up at hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the setting sun. gryffindor in the lead. he’d done it, he’d shown snape. … and speaking of snape … a hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of the castle. clearly not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possible toward the forbidden forest. Harry_Potter’s victory faded from his mind as he watched. he recognized the figure’s prowling walk. snape, sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at dinner — what was going on? Harry_Potter jumped back on his nimbus two thousand and took off. gliding silently over the castle he saw snape enter the forest at a run. he followed. the trees were so thick he couldn’t see where snape had gone. he flew in circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of trees until he heard voices. he glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a towering beech tree. he climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tight to his broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. below, in a shadowy clearing, stood snape, but he wasn’t alone. Quirinus_Quirrell was there, too. Harry_Potter couldn’t make out the look on his face, but he was stuttering worse than ever. Harry_Potter strained to catch what they were saying. “… d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p- places, Severus_Snape …” “oh, i thought we’d keep this private,” said snape, his voice icy. “students aren’t supposed to know about the sorcerer’s stone, after all.” Harry_Potter leaned forward. Quirinus_Quirrell was mumbling something. snape interrupted him. “have you found out how to get past that beast of Rubeus_Hagrid’s yet?” “b-b-but Severus_Snape, i —” “you don’t want me as your enemy, Quirinus_Quirrell,” said snape, taking a step toward him. “i-i don’t know what you —” “you know perfectly well what i mean.” an owl hooted loudly, and Harry_Potter nearly fell out of the tree. he steadied himself in time to hear snape say, “— your little bit of hocus-pocus. i’m waiting.” “b-but i d-d-don’t —” “very well,” snape cut in. “we’ll have another little chat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over and decided where your loyalties lie.” he threw his cloak over his head and strode out of the clearing. it was almost dark now, but Harry_Potter could see Quirinus_Quirrell, standing quite still as though he was petrified. *  *  * “Harry_Potter, where have you been?” Hermione_Granger squeaked. “we won! you won! we won!” shouted Ronald_Weasley thumping Harry_Potter on the back. “and i gave malfoy a black eye, and Neville_Longbottom tried to take on Crabbe and Goyle single-handed! he’s still out cold but madam pomfrey says he’ll be all right — talk about showing slytherin! everyone’s waiting for you in the common room, we’re having a party, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley stole some cakes and stuff from the kitchens.” “never mind that now,” said Harry_Potter breathlessly. “let’s find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. …” he made sure Peeves wasn’t inside before shutting the door behind them, then he told them what he’d seen and heard. “so we were right, it is the sorcerer’s stone, and snape’s trying to force Quirinus_Quirrell to help him get it. he asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy — and he said something about Quirinus_Quirrell’s ‘hocus-pocus’ — i reckon there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirinus_Quirrell would have done some anti-dark arts spell that snape needs to break through —” “so you mean the stone’s only safe as long as Quirinus_Quirrell stands up to snape?” said Hermione_Granger in alarm. “it’ll be gone by next tuesday,” said Ronald_Weasley 