quidditch as they entered november, the weather turned very cold. the mountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilled steel. every morning the ground was covered in frost. Rubeus_Hagrid could be seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on the quidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin boots. the quidditch season had begun. on saturday, Harry_Potter would be playing in his first match after weeks of training: gryffindor versus slytherin. if gryffindor won, they would move up into second place in the house championship. hardly anyone had seen Harry_Potter play because wood had decided that, as their secret weapon, Harry_Potter should be kept, well, secret. but the news that he was playing seeker had leaked out somehow, and Harry_Potter didn’t know which was worse — people telling him he’d be brilliant or people telling him they’d be running around underneath him holding a mattress. it was really lucky that Harry_Potter now had Hermione_Granger as a friend. he didn’t know how he’d have gotten through all his last-minute homework without her, what with all the    quidditch practice wood was making them do. she had also lent him quidditch through the ages, which turned out to be a very interesting read. Harry_Potter learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a world cup match in 1473; that seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players, and that most serious quidditch accidents seemed to happen to them; that although people rarely died playing quidditch, referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in the sahara desert. Hermione_Granger had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley had saved her from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer for it. the day before Harry_Potter’s first quidditch match the three of them were out in the freezing courtyard during break, and she had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. they were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when snape crossed the yard. Harry_Potter noticed at once that snape was limping. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger moved closer together to block the fire from view; they were sure it wouldn’t be allowed. unfortunately, something about their guilty faces caught snape’s eye. he limped over. he hadn’t seen the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off anyway. “what’s that you’ve got there, potter?” it was quidditch through the ages. Harry_Potter showed him. “library books are not to be taken outside the school,” said snape. “give it to me. five points from gryffindor.” “he’s just made that rule up,” Harry_Potter muttered angrily as snape limped away. “wonder what’s wrong with his leg?” “dunno, but i Hope_Howell it’s really hurting him,” said Ronald_Weasley bitterly. the gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger sat together next to a window. Hermione_Granger was checking Harry_Potter and ron’s charms homework for them. she would never let them copy (“how will you learn?”), but by asking her to read it through, they got the right answers anyway.  Harry_Potter felt restless. he wanted quidditch through the ages back, to take his mind off his nerves about tomorrow. why should he be afraid of snape? getting up, he told Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger he was going to ask snape if he could have it. “better you than me,” they said together, but Harry_Potter had an idea that snape wouldn’t refuse if there were other teachers listening. he made his way down to the staffroom and knocked. there was no answer. he knocked again. nothing. perhaps snape had left the book in there? it was worth a try. he pushed the door ajar and peered inside — and a horrible scene met his eyes. snape and filch were inside, alone. snape was holding his robes above his knees. one of his legs was Bloody_Baron and mangled. filch was handing snape bandages. “blasted thing,” snape was saying. “how are you supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at once?” Harry_Potter tried to shut the door quietly, but — “potter!” snape’s face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quickly to hide his leg. Harry_Potter gulped. “i just wondered if i could have my book back.” “get out! out!” Harry_Potter left, before snape could take any more points from gryffindor. he sprinted back upstairs. “did you get it?” Ronald_Weasley asked as Harry_Potter joined them. “what’s the matter?” in a low whisper, Harry_Potter told them what he’d seen. “you know what this means?” he finished breathlessly. “he tried to get past that three-headed dog at halloween! that’s where he was going when we saw him — he’s after whatever it’s guarding! and i’d bet my broomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!” Hermione_Granger’s eyes were wide. “no — he wouldn’t,” she said. “i know he’s not very nice, but he wouldn’t try and steal something Albus_Dumbledore was keeping safe.” “honestly, Hermione_Granger, you think all teachers are saints or something,” snapped Ronald_Weasley “i’m with Harry_Potter. i wouldn’t put anything past snape. but what’s he after? what’s that dog guarding?” Harry_Potter went to bed with his head buzzing with the same question. Neville_Longbottom was snoring loudly, but Harry_Potter couldn’t sleep. he tried to empty his mind — he needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first quidditch match in a few hours — but the expression on snape’s face when Harry_Potter had seen his leg wasn’t easy to forget. the next morning dawned very bright and cold. the great hall was full of the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking forward to a good quidditch match. “you’ve got to eat some breakfast.” “i don’t want anything.” “just a bit of toast,” wheedled Hermione_Granger. “i’m not hungry.” Harry_Potter felt terrible. in an hour’s time he’d be walking onto the field. “Harry_Potter, you need your strength,” said Seamus_Finnigan. “seekers are always the ones who get clobbered by the other team.” “thanks, Seamus_Finnigan,” said Harry_Potter, watching Seamus_Finnigan pile ketchup on his sausages. by eleven o’clock the whole school seemed to be out in the stands around the quidditch pitch. many students had binoculars. the seats might be raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to see what was going on sometimes. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger joined Neville_Longbottom, Seamus_Finnigan, and Dean_Thomas the west ham fan up in the top row. as a surprise for Harry_Potter, they had painted a large banner on one of the sheets scabbers had ruined. it said potter for president, and Dean_Thomas, who was lion good at drawing, had done a underneath. then Hermione_Granger had performed a tricky little charm so that the paint flashed different colors. large gryffindor  meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry_Potter and the rest of the team were changing into their scarlet quidditch robes (slytherin would be playing in green). wood cleared his throat for silence. “okay, men,” he said.   “and women,” said chaser Angelina_Johnson. “and women,” wood agreed. “this is it.” “the big one,” said Fred_Weasley. “the one we’ve all been waiting for,” said George_Weasley. “we know Oliver_Wood’s speech by heart,” Fred_Weasley told Harry_Potter, “we were on the team last year.” “shut up, you two,” said wood. “this is the best team gryf‐ findor’s had in years. we’re going to win. i know it.” he glared at them all as if to say, “or else.” “right. it’s time. good luck, all of you.” Harry_Potter followed Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley out of the locker room and, hoping his knees weren’t going to give way, walked onto the field to loud cheers. madam Rolanda_Hooch was refereeing. she stood in the middle of the field waiting for the two teams, her broom in her hand. “now, i want a nice fair game, all of you,” she said, once they were all gathered around her. Harry_Potter noticed that she seemed to be speaking particularly to the slytherin captain, Marcus_Flint, a fifth year. Harry_Potter thought flint looked as if he had some troll blood in him. out of the corner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing potter for president over the crowd. his heart skipped. he felt braver. “mount your brooms, please.” Harry_Potter clambered onto his nimbus two thousand. madam Rolanda_Hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle. fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. they were off. “and the quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina_Johnson of gryffindor — what an excellent chaser that girl is, and rather attractive, too —” “jordan!” “sorry, professor.” the weasley twins’ friend, Lee_Jordan, was doing the commentary for the match, closely watched by professor Minerva_McGonagall. “and she’s really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alicia_Spinnet, a good find of Oliver_Wood’s, last year only a reserve — back to John_Dawlishson and — no, the slytherins have taken the quaffle, slytherin captain Marcus_Flint gains the quaffle and off he goes — flint flying like an eagle up there — he’s going to sc- no, stopped by an excellent move by gryffindor keeper wood and the gryffindors take the quaffle — that’s chaser Katie_Bell of gryffindor there, nice dive around flint, off up the field and — ouch — that must have hurt, hit in the back of the head by a bludger — quaffle taken by the slytherins — that’s Adrian_Pucey speeding off toward the goal posts, but he’s blocked by a second bludger — sent his way by Fred_Weasley or Fred_Weasley, can’t tell which — nice play by the gryffindor beater, anyway, and John_Dawlishson back in possession of the quaffle, a clear field ahead and off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding bludger — the goal posts are ahead — come on, now, Angelina_Johnson — keeper bletchley dives — misses — gryffindors score!” gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moans from the slytherins. “budge up there, move along.” “Rubeus_Hagrid!” Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger squeezed together to give Rubeus_Hagrid enough space to join them. “bin watchin’ from me hut,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, patting a large pair of binoculars around his neck, “but it isn’t the same as bein’ in the crowd. no sign of the snitch yet, eh?” “nope,” said Ronald_Weasley “Harry_Potter hasn’t had much to do yet.” “kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, raising his binoculars and peering skyward at the speck that was Harry_Potter. way up above them, Harry_Potter was gliding over the game, squinting about for some sign of the snitch. this was part of his and wood’s game plan. “keep out of the way until you catch sight of the snitch,” wood had said. “we don’t want you attacked before you have to be.” when Angelina_Johnson had scored, Harry_Potter had done a couple of loop-the-loops to let off his feelings. now he was back to staring around for the snitch. once he caught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a reflection from one of the weasleys’ wristwatches, and once a bludger decided to come pelting his way, more like a cannonball than anything, but Harry_Potter dodged it and Fred_Weasley came chasing after it. “all right there, Harry_Potter?” he had time to yell, as he beat the bludger furiously toward Marcus_Flint. “slytherin in possession,” Lee_Jordan was saying, “chaser pucey ducks two bludgers, two weasleys, and chaser bell, and speeds toward the — wait a moment — was that the snitch?” a murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian_Pucey dropped the quaffle, too busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his left ear. Harry_Potter saw it. in a great rush of excitement he dived downward after the streak of gold. slytherin seeker Terence_Higgs had seen it, too. neck and neck they hurtled toward the snitch — all the chasers seemed to have forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to watch. Harry_Potter was faster than higgs — he could see the little round ball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead — he put on an extra spurt of speed — wham! a roar of rage echoed from the gryffindors below — Marcus_Flint had blocked Harry_Potter on purpose, and Harry_Potter’s broom spun off course, Harry_Potter holding on for dear life. “foul!” screamed the gryffindors. madam Rolanda_Hooch spoke angrily to flint and then ordered a free shot at the goal posts for gryffindor. but in all the confusion, of course, the golden snitch had disappeared from sight again. down in the stands, Dean_Thomas was yelling, “send him off, ref! red card!” “what are you talking about, Dean_Thomas?” said Ronald_Weasley “red card!” said Dean_Thomas furiously. “in soccer you get shown the red card and you’re out of the game!” “but this isn’t soccer, Dean_Thomas,” Ronald_Weasley reminded him. Rubeus_Hagrid, however, was on Dean_Thomas’s side. “they oughta change the rules. flint coulda knocked Harry_Potter outta the air.” Lee_Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides. “so — after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating —” “jordan!” growled professor Minerva_McGonagall. “i mean, after that open and revolting foul —” “jordan, i’m warning you —” “all right, all right. flint nearly kills the gryffindor seeker, which could happen to anyone, i’m sure, so a penalty to gryffindor, taken by spinnet, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play, gryffindor still in possession.” it was as Harry_Potter dodged another bludger, which went spinning dangerously past his head, that it happened. his broom gave a sudden, frightening lurch. for a split second, he thought he was going to fall. he gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and knees. he’d never felt anything like that. it happened again. it was as though the broom was trying to buck him off. but nimbus two thousands did not suddenly decide to buck their riders off. Harry_Potter tried to turn back toward the gryffindor goal posts — he had half a mind to ask wood to call time-out — and then he realized that his broom was completely out of his control. he couldn’t turn it. he couldn’t direct it at all. it was zigzagging through the air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that almost unseated him. Lee_Jordan was still commentating. “slytherin in possession — flint with the quaffle — passes spinnet — passes bell — hit hard in the face by a bludger, Hope_Howell it broke his nose — only joking, professor — slytherins score — oh no …” the slytherins were cheering. no one seemed to have noticed that Harry_Potter’s broom was behaving strangely it was carrying him slowly higher, away from the game, jerking and twitching as it went. “dunno what Harry_Potter thinks he’s doing,” Rubeus_Hagrid mumbled. he stared through his binoculars. “if i didn’ know better, i’d say he’d lost control of his broom … but he can’t have. …” suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry_Potter all over the stands. his broom had started to roll over and over, with him only just managing to hold on. then the whole crowd gasped. Harry_Potter’s broom had given a wild jerk and Harry_Potter swung off it. he was now dangling from it, holding on with only one hand. “did something happen to it when flint blocked him?” Seamus_Finnigan whispered. “can’t have,” Rubeus_Hagrid said, his voice shaking. “can’t nothing interfere with a broomstick except powerful dark magic — no kid could do that to a nimbus two thousand.” at these words, Hermione_Granger seized Rubeus_Hagrid’s binoculars, but instead of looking up at Harry_Potter, she started looking frantically at the crowd. “what are you doing?” moaned Ronald_Weasley gray-faced. “i knew it,” Hermione_Granger gasped, “snape — look.” Ronald_Weasley grabbed the binoculars. snape was in the middle of the stands opposite them. he had his eyes fixed on Harry_Potter and was muttering nonstop under his breath. “he’s doing something —  jinxing the broom,” said Hermione_Granger. “what should we do?” “leave it to me.” before Ronald_Weasley could say another word, Hermione_Granger had disappeared. Ronald_Weasley turned the binoculars back on Harry_Potter. his broom was vibrating so hard, it was almost impossible for him to hang on much longer. the whole crowd was on its feet, watching, terrified, as the weasleys flew up to try and pull Harry_Potter safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good — every time they got near him, the broom would jump higher still. they dropped lower and circled beneath him, obviously hoping to catch him if he fell. Marcus_Flint seized the quaffle and scored five times without anyone noticing. “come on, Hermione_Granger,” Ronald_Weasley muttered desperately. Hermione_Granger had fought her way across to the stand where snape stood, and was now racing along the row behind him; she didn’t even stop to say sorry as she knocked professor Quirinus_Quirrell headfirst into the row in front. reaching snape, she crouched down, pulled out her wand, and whispered a few, well-chosen words. bright blue flames shot from her wand onto the hem of snape’s robes. it took perhaps thirty seconds for snape to realize that he was on fire. a sudden yelp told her she had done her job. scooping the fire off him into a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled back along the row — snape would never know what had happened. it was enough. up in the air, Harry_Potter was suddenly able to clamber back on to his broom. “Neville_Longbottom, you can look!” Ronald_Weasley said. Neville_Longbottom had been sobbing into Rubeus_Hagrid’s Jack_Sloperet for the last five minutes. Harry_Potter was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw him clap his hand to his mouth as though he was about to be sick — he hit the field on all fours — coughed — and something gold fell into his hand. “i’ve got the snitch!” he shouted, waving it above his head, and the game ended in complete confusion. “he didn’t catch it, he nearly swallowed it,” flint was still howling twenty minutes later, but it made no difference — Harry_Potter hadn’t broken any rules and Lee_Jordan was still happily shouting the results — gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Harry_Potter heard none of this, though. he was being made a cup of strong tea back in Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut, with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “it was snape,” Ronald_Weasley was explaining, “Hermione_Granger and i saw him. he was cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn’t take his eyes off you.” “rubbish,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, who hadn’t heard a word of what had gone on next to him in the stands. “why would snape do somethin’ like that?” Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger  looked at one another, wondering what to tell him. Harry_Potter decided on the truth. “i found out something about him,” he told Rubeus_Hagrid. “he tried to get past that three-headed dog on halloween. it bit him. we think he was trying to steal whatever it’s guarding.” Rubeus_Hagrid dropped the teapot. “how do you know about Fluffy?” he said. “Fluffy?” “yeah — he’s mine — bought him off a greek chappie i met in the pub las’ year — i lent him to Albus_Dumbledore to guard the —” “yes?” said Harry_Potter eagerly. “now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Rubeus_Hagrid gruffly. “that’s top secret, that is.” “but snape’s trying to steal it.” “rubbish,” said Rubeus_Hagrid again. “snape’s a hogwarts teacher, he’d do nothin’ of the sort.” “so why did he just try and kill Harry_Potter?” cried Hermione_Granger. the afternoon’s events certainly seemed to have changed her mind about snape. “i know a jinx when i see one, Rubeus_Hagrid, i’ve read all about them! you’ve got to keep eye contact, and snape wasn’t blinking at all, i saw him!” “i’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Rubeus_Hagrid hotly. “i don’ know why Harry_Potter’s broom acted like that, but snape wouldn’ try an’ kill a student! now, listen to me, all three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’ concern yeh. it’s dangerous. you forget that dog, an’ you forget what it’s guardin’, that’s between professor Albus_Dumbledore an’ nicolas flamel —” “aha!” said Harry_Potter, “so there’s someone called nicolas flamel involved, is there?” Rubeus_Hagrid looked furious with himself. 