the man with two faces it was Quirinus_Quirrell. “you!” gasped Harry_Potter. Quirinus_Quirrell smiled. his face wasn’t twitching at all. “me,” he said calmly. “i wondered whether i’d be meeting you here, potter.” “but i thought — snape —” “Severus_Snape?” Quirinus_Quirrell laughed, and it wasn’t his usual quivering treble, either, but cold and sharp. “yes, Severus_Snape does seem the type, doesn’t he? so useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. next to him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stuttering p-professor Quirinus_Quirrell?” Harry_Potter couldn’t take it in. this couldn’t be true, it couldn’t. “but snape tried to kill me!” “no, no, no. i tried to kill you. your friend miss granger accidentally knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to snape at that quidditch match. she broke my eye contact with you. another few seconds and i’d have got you off that broom. i’d have managed it before then if snape hadn’t been muttering a countercurse, trying to save you.” “snape was trying to save me?” “of course,” said Quirinus_Quirrell coolly. “why do you think he   wanted to referee your next match? he was trying to make sure i didn’t do it again. funny, really … he needn’t have bothered. i couldn’t do anything with Albus_Dumbledore watching. all the other teachers thought snape was trying to stop gryffindor from winning, he did make himself unpopular … and what a waste of time, when after all that, i’m going to kill you tonight.” Quirinus_Quirrell snapped his fingers. ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped themselves tightly around Harry_Potter. “you’re too nosy to live, potter. scurrying around the school on halloween like that, for all i knew you’d seen me coming to look at what was guarding the stone.” “you let the troll in?” “certainly. i have a special gift with trolls — you must have seen what i did to the one in the chamber back there? unfortunately, while everyone else was running around looking for it, snape, who already suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head me off — and not only did my troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dog didn’t even manage to bite snape’s leg off properly. “now, wait quietly, potter. i need to examine this interesting mirror.” it was only then that Harry_Potter realized what was standing behind Quirinus_Quirrell. it was the mirror of erised. “this mirror is the key to finding the stone,” Quirinus_Quirrell mur‐ mured, frame. “trust Albus_Dumbledore to come up with something like this … but he’s in london … i’ll be far away by the time he gets back. …” tapping his way around  the  all Harry_Potter could think of doing was to keep Quirinus_Quirrell talking and stop him from concentrating on the mirror. “i saw you and snape in the forest —” he blurted out. “yes,” said Quirinus_Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to look at the back. “he was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far i’d got. he suspected me all along. tried to frighten me — as though he could, when i had Tom_Riddle on my side. …” Quirinus_Quirrell came back out from behind the mirror and stared hungrily into it. “i see the stone … i’m presenting it to my master … but where is it?” Harry_Potter struggled against the ropes binding him, but they didn’t give. he had to keep Quirinus_Quirrell from giving his whole attention to the mirror. “but snape always seemed to hate me so much.” “oh, he does,” said Quirinus_Quirrell casually, “heavens, yes. he was at hogwarts with your father, didn’t you know? they loathed each other. but he never wanted you dead.” “but i heard you a few days ago, sobbing — i thought snape was threatening you. for the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Quirinus_Quirrell’s face. “sometimes,” he said, “i find it hard to follow my master’s instructions — he is a great wizard and i am weak —” “you mean he was there in the classroom with you?” Harry_Potter gasped. “he is with me wherever i go,” said Quirinus_Quirrell quietly. “i met him when i traveled around the world. a foolish young man i was then, full of ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Tom_Riddle showed me how wrong i was. there is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too weak to seek it. … since then, i have served him faithfully, although i have let him down many times. he has had to be very hard on me.” Quirinus_Quirrell shivered suddenly. “he does not forgive mistakes easily. when i failed to steal the stone from Gringotts_Head_Goblin, he was most displeased. he punished me … decided he would have to keep a closer watch on me. …” Quirinus_Quirrell’s voice trailed away. Harry_Potter was remembering his trip to diagon alley — how could he have been so stupid? he’d seen Quirinus_Quirrell there that very day, shaken hands with him in the leaky cauldron. Quirinus_Quirrell cursed under his breath. “i don’t understand … is the stone inside the mirror? should i break it?” Harry_Potter’s mind was racing. what i want more than anything else in the world at the moment, he thought, is to find the stone before Quirinus_Quirrell does. so if i look in the mirror, i should see myself finding it — which means i’ll see where it’s hidden! but how can i look without Quirinus_Quirrell realizing what i’m up to? he tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without Quirinus_Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around his ankles were too tight: he tripped and fell over. Quirinus_Quirrell ignored him. he was still talking to himself. “what does this mirror do? how does it work? help me, master!” and to Harry_Potter’s horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemed to come from Quirinus_Quirrell himself. “use the boy … use the boy …” Quirinus_Quirrell rounded on Harry_Potter. “yes — potter — come here.” he clapped his hands once, and the ropes binding Harry_Potter fell off. Harry_Potter got slowly to his feet. “come here,” Quirinus_Quirrell repeated. “look in the mirror and tell me what you see.” Harry_Potter walked toward him. i must lie, he thought desperately. i must look and lie about what i see, that’s all. Quirinus_Quirrell moved close behind him. Harry_Potter breathed in the funny smell that seemed to come from Quirinus_Quirrell’s turban. he closed his eyes, stepped in front of the mirror, and opened them again. he saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. but a moment later, the reflection smiled at him. it put its hand into its pocket and pulled out a blood-red stone. it winked and put the stone back in its pocket — and as it did so, Harry_Potter felt something heavy drop into his real pocket. somehow — incredibly — he’d gotten the stone. “well?” said Quirinus_Quirrell impatiently. “what do you see?” Harry_Potter screwed up his courage. “i see myself shaking hands with Albus_Dumbledore,” he invented. “i — i’ve won the house cup for gryffindor.” Quirinus_Quirrell cursed again. “get out of the way,” he said. as Harry_Potter moved aside, he felt the sorcerer’s stone against his leg. dare he make a break for it? but he hadn’t walked five paces before a high voice spoke, though Quirinus_Quirrell wasn’t moving his lips. “he lies … he lies …” “potter, come back here!” Quirinus_Quirrell shouted. “tell me the truth! what did you just see?” the high voice spoke again. “let me speak to him … face-to-face. …” “master, you are not strong enough!” “i have strength enough … for this. …” Harry_Potter felt as if devil’s snare was rooting him to the spot. he couldn’t move a muscle. petrified, he watched as Quirinus_Quirrell reached up and began to unwrap his turban. what was going on? the turban fell away. Quirinus_Quirrell’s head looked strangely small without it. then he turned slowly on the spot. Harry_Potter would have screamed, but he couldn’t make a sound. where there should have been a back to Quirinus_Quirrell’s head, there was a face, the most terrible face Harry_Potter had ever seen. it was chalk white with glaring red eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake. “Harry_Potter …” it whispered. Harry_Potter tried to take a step backward but his legs wouldn’t move. “see what i have become?” the face said. “mere shadow and vapor … i have form only when i can share another’s body … but there have always been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds. … unicorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks … you saw faithful Quirinus_Quirrell drinking it for me in the forest … and once i have the elixir of life, i will be able to create a body of my own. … now … why don’t you give me that stone in your pocket?” so he knew. the feeling suddenly surged back into Harry_Potter’s legs. he stumbled backward. “don’t be a fool,” snarled the face. “better save your own life and join me … or you’ll meet the same end as your parents. … they died begging me for mercy. …” “liar!” Harry_Potter shouted suddenly. Quirinus_Quirrell was walking backward at him, so that voldemort could still see him. the evil face was now smiling. “how touching …” it hissed. “i always value brAvery_II. … yes, boy, your parents were brave. … i killed your father first, and he put up a courageous fight … but your mother needn’t have died … she was trying to protect you. … now give me the stone, unless you want her to have died in vain.” “never!” Harry_Potter sprang toward the flame door, but voldemort screamed “seize him!” and the next second, Harry_Potter felt Quirinus_Quirrell’s hand close on his wrist. at once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry_Potter’s scar; his head felt as though it was about to split in two; he yelled, struggling with all his might, and to his surprise, Quirinus_Quirrell let go of him. the pain in his head lessened — he looked around wildly to see where Quirinus_Quirrell had gone, and saw him hunched in pain, looking at his fingers — they were blistering before his eyes. “seize him! seize him!” shrieked voldemort again, and Quirinus_Quirrell lunged, knocking Harry_Potter clean off his feet, landing on top of him, both hands around Harry_Potter’s neck — Harry_Potter’s scar was almost blinding him with pain, yet he could see Quirinus_Quirrell howling in agony. “master, i cannot hold him — my hands — my hands!” and Quirinus_Quirrell, though pinning Harry_Potter to the ground with his knees, let go of his neck and stared, bewildered, at his own palms — Harry_Potter could see they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny. “then kill him, fool, and be done!” screeched voldemort. Quirinus_Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry_Potter, by instinct, reached up and grabbed Quirinus_Quirrell’s face — “aaaargh!” Quirinus_Quirrell rolled off him, his face blistering, too, and then Harry_Potter knew: Quirinus_Quirrell couldn’t touch his bare skin, not without suffering terrible pain — his only chance was to keep hold of Quirinus_Quirrell, keep him in enough pain to stop him from doing a curse. Harry_Potter jumped to his feet, caught Quirinus_Quirrell by the arm, and hung on as tight as he could. Quirinus_Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harry_Potter off — the pain in Harry_Potter’s head was building — he couldn’t see — he could only hear Quirinus_Quirrell’s terrible shrieks and voldemort’s yells of, “kill him! kill him!” and other voices, maybe in Harry_Potter’s own head, crying, “Harry_Potter! Harry_Potter!” he felt Quirinus_Quirrell’s arm wrenched from his grasp, knew all was lost, and fell into blackness, down … down … down … something gold was glinting just above him. the snitch! he tried to catch it, but his arms were too heavy. he blinked. it wasn’t the snitch at all. it was a pair of  glasses. how strange. he blinked again. the smiling face of Albus_Dumbledore swam into view above him. “good afternoon, Harry_Potter,” said Albus_Dumbledore. Harry_Potter stared at him. then he remembered: “sir! the stone! it was Quirinus_Quirrell! he’s got the stone! sir, quick —” “calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times,” said Albus_Dumbledore. “Quirinus_Quirrell does not have the stone.” “then who does? sir, i —” “Harry_Potter, please relax, or madam pomfrey will have me thrown out.” Harry_Potter swallowed and looked around him. he realized he must be in the hospital wing. he was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next to him was a table piled high with what looked like half the candy shop. your  from  “tokens  friends and admirers,”  said Albus_Dumbledore, beaming. “what happened down in the Mundungus_Fletchereons between you and professor Quirinus_Quirrell is a complete secret, so, naturally, the whole school knows. i believe your friends misters Fred_Weasley and Fred_Weasley were responsible for trying to send you a toilet seat. no doubt they thought it would amuse you. madam pomfrey, however, felt it might not be very hygienic, and confiscated it.” “how long have i been in here?” “three days. mr. Ronald_Weasley and miss granger will be most relieved you have come round, they have been extremely worried.” “but sir, the stone —” “i see you are not to be distracted. very well, the stone. professor Quirinus_Quirrell did not manage to take it from you. i arrived in time to prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, i must say.” “you got there? you got Hermione_Granger’s owl?” “we must have crossed in midair. no sooner had i reached london than it became clear to me that the place i should be was the one i had just left. i arrived just in time to pull Quirinus_Quirrell off you —” “it was you.” “i feared i might be too late.” “you nearly were, i couldn’t have kept him off the stone much longer —” “not the stone, boy, you — the effort involved nearly killed you. for one terrible moment there, i was afraid it had. as for the stone, it has been desTroyed.” “desTroyed?” said Harry_Potter blankly. “but your friend — nicolas flamel —” “oh, you know about nicolas?” said Albus_Dumbledore, sounding quite delighted. “you did do the thing properly, didn’t you? well, nicolas and i have had a little chat, and agreed it’s all for the best.” “but that means he and his wife will die, won’t they?” “they have enough elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then, yes, they will die.” Albus_Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on Harry_Potter’s face. “to one as young as you, i’m sure it seems incredible, but to nicolas and perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very, very long day. after all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure. you know, the stone was really not such a wonderful thing. as much money and life as you could want! the two things most human beings would choose above all — the trouble is, humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that are worst for them.” Harry_Potter lay there, lost for words. Albus_Dumbledore hummed a little and smiled at the ceiling. “sir?” said Harry_Potter. “i’ve been thinking … sir — even if the stone’s gone, vol-, i mean, Tom_Riddle —” “call him voldemort, Harry_Potter. always use the proper name for things. fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself.” “yes, sir. well, voldemort’s going to try other ways of coming back, isn’t he? i mean, he hasn’t gone, has he?” “no, Harry_Potter, he has not. he is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking for another body to share … not being truly alive, he cannot be killed. he left Quirinus_Quirrell to die; he shows just as little mercy to his followers as his enemies. nevertheless, Harry_Potter, while you may only have delayed his return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losing battle next time — and if he is delayed again, and again, why, he may never return to power.” Harry_Potter nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made his head hurt. then he said, “sir, there are some other things i’d like to know, if you can tell me … things i want to know the truth about. …” “the truth.” Albus_Dumbledore sighed. “it is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great caution. however, i shall answer your questions unless i have a very good reason not to, in which case i beg you’ll forgive me. i shall not, of course, lie.” “well … voldemort said that he only killed my mother because she tried to stop him from killing me. but why would he want to kill me in the first place?” Albus_Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time. “alas, the first thing you ask me, i cannot tell you. not today. not now. you will know, one day … put it from your mind for now, Harry_Potter. when you are older … i know you hate to hear this … when you are ready, you will know.” and Harry_Potter knew it would be no good to argue. “but why couldn’t Quirinus_Quirrell touch me?” “your mother died to save you. if there is one thing voldemort cannot understand, it is love. he didn’t realize that love as powerful as your mother’s for you leaves its own mark. not a scar, no visible sign … to have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, will give us some protection forever. it is in your very skin. Quirinus_Quirrell, full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with voldemort, could not touch you for this reason. it was agony to touch a person marked by something so good.” Albus_Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on the windowsill, which gave Harry_Potter time to dry his eyes on the sheet. when he had found his voice again, Harry_Potter said, “and the invisibility cloak — do you know who sent it to me?” “ah — your father happened to leave it in my possession, and i thought you might like it.” Albus_Dumbledore’s eyes twinkled. “useful things … your father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchens to steal food when he was here.” “and there’s something else …” “fire away.” “Quirinus_Quirrell said snape —” “professor snape, Harry_Potter.” “yes, him — Quirinus_Quirrell said he hates me because he hated my father. is that true?” “well, they did rather detest each other. not unlike yourself and mr. malfoy. and then, your father did something snape could never forgive.” “what?” “he saved his life.” “what?” “yes …” said Albus_Dumbledore dreamily. “funny, the way people’s minds work, isn’t it? professor snape couldn’t bear being in your father’s debt. … i do believe he worked so hard to protect you this year because he felt that would make him and your father even. then he could go back to hating your father’s memory in peace. …” Harry_Potter tried to understand this but it made his head pound, so he stopped. “and sir, there’s one more thing …” “just the one?” “how did i get the stone out of the mirror?” “ah, now, i’m glad you asked me that. it was one of my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me, that’s saying something. you see, only one who wanted to find the stone — find it, but not use it — would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see themselves making gold or drinking elixir of life. my brain surprises even me sometimes. … now, enough questions. i suggest you make a start on these sweets. ah! bertie bott’s every flavor beans! i was unfortunate enough in my youth to come across a vomit-flavored one, and since then i’m afraid i’ve rather lost my liking for them — but i think i’ll be safe with a nice toffee, don’t you?” he smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. then he choked and said, “alas! ear wax!” madam pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but very strict. “just five minutes,” Harry_Potter pleaded. “absolutely not.” “you let professor Albus_Dumbledore in. …” “well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different.  you need rest.” “i am resting, look, lying down and everything. oh, go on, madam pomfrey …” “oh, very well,” she said. “but five minutes only.” and she let Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger in. “Harry_Potter!” Hermione_Granger looked ready to fling her arms around him again, but Harry_Potter was glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore. “oh, Harry_Potter, we were sure you were going to — Albus_Dumbledore was so worried —” “the whole school’s talking about it,” said Ronald_Weasley “what really happened?” it was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry_Potter told them everything: Quirinus_Quirrell; the mirror; the stone; and voldemort. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were a very good audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Harry_Potter told them what was under Quirinus_Quirrell’s turban, Hermione_Granger screamed out loud. “so the stone’s gone?” said Ronald_Weasley finally. “flamel’s just going to die?” “that’s what i said, but Albus_Dumbledore thinks that — what was it? — ‘to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.’ ” “i always said he was off his rocker,” said Ronald_Weasley looking quite impressed at how crazy his hero was. “so what happened to you two?” said Harry_Potter. “well, i got back all right,” said Hermione_Granger. “i brought Ronald_Weasley round — that took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact Albus_Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall — he already knew — he just said, ‘Harry_Potter’s gone after him, hasn’t he?’ and hurtled off to the third floor.” “d’you think he meant you to do it?” said Ronald_Weasley “sending you your fathers cloak and everything?” “well,” Hermione_Granger exploded, “if he did — i mean to say — that’s terrible — you could have been killed.” “no, it isn’t,” said Harry_Potter thoughtfully. “he’s a funny man, Albus_Dumbledore. i think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. i think he knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. i reckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just taught us enough to help. i don’t think it was an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. it’s almost like he thought i had the right to face voldemort if i could. …” “yeah, Albus_Dumbledore’s off his rocker, all right,” said Ronald_Weasley proudly. “listen, you’ve got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. the points are all in and slytherin won, of course last quidditch match, we were — you missed steamrollered by ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good.” the  at that moment, madam pomfrey bustled over. “you’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now out,” she said firmly. *  *  * after a good night’s sleep, Harry_Potter felt nearly back to normal. “i want to go to the feast,” he told madam pomfrey as she straightened his many candy boxes. “i can, can’t i?” “professor Albus_Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go,” in her opinion professor she said sniffily, as though Albus_Dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts could be. “and you have another visitor.” “oh, good,” said Harry_Potter. “who is it?” Rubeus_Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. as usual when he was indoors, Rubeus_Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. he sat down next to Harry_Potter, took one look at him, and burst into tears. “it’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed, his face in his hands. “i told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! i told him! it was the only thing he didn’t know, an’ i told him! yeh could’ve died! all fer a dragon egg! i’ll never drink again! i should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a muggle!” “Rubeus_Hagrid!” said Harry_Potter, shocked to see Rubeus_Hagrid shaking with grief and remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. “Rubeus_Hagrid, he’d have found out somehow, this is voldemort we’re talking about, he’d have found out even if you hadn’t told him.” “yeh could’ve died!” sobbed Rubeus_Hagrid. “an’ don’ say the name!” “voldemort!” Harry_Potter bellowed, and Rubeus_Hagrid was so shocked, he stopped crying. “i’ve met him and i’m calling him by his name. please cheer up, Rubeus_Hagrid, we saved the stone, it’s gone, he can’t use it. have a chocolate frog, i’ve got loads. …” Rubeus_Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, “that reminds me. i’ve got yeh a present.” “it’s not a stoat sandwich, is it?” said Harry_Potter anxiously, and at last Rubeus_Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. “nah. Albus_Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ’course, he shoulda sacked me instead — anyway, got yeh this …” it seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry_Potter opened it curiously. it was full of wizard photographs. smiling and waving at him from every page were his mother and father. “sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends, askin’ fer photos … knew yeh didn’ have any … d’yeh like it?” Harry_Potter couldn’t speak, but Rubeus_Hagrid understood. Harry_Potter made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. he had been held up by madam pomfrey’s fussing about, insisting on giving him one last checkup, so the great hall was already full. it was decked out in the slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate slytherin’s winning the house cup for the seventh year in a row. a huge banner showing the slytherin serpent covered the wall behind the high table. when Harry_Potter walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody started talking loudly at once. he slipped into a seat between Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger at the gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were standing up to look at him. fortunately, Albus_Dumbledore arrived moments  later. the babble died away. “another year gone!” Albus_Dumbledore said cheerfully. “and i must trouble you with an old man’s wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our delicious feast. what a year it has been! Hope_Howellfully your heads are all a little fuller than they were … you have the whole summer ahead to get them nice  and empty before next year starts. … “now, as i understand it, the house cup here needs awarding, and the points stand thus: in fourth place, gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in third, hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-six and slytherin, four hundred and seventy-two.” a storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the slytherin table. Harry_Potter could see Draco_Malfoy banging his goblet on the table. it was a sickening sight. “yes, yes, well done, slytherin,” said Albus_Dumbledore. “however, recent events must be taken into account.” the room went very still. the slytherins’ sMiles_Bletchley faded a little. “ahem,” said Albus_Dumbledore. “i have a few last-minute points to dish out. let me see. yes … “first — to mr. Ronald_Weasley …” Ronald_Weasley went purple in the face; he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. “… for the best-played game of chess hogwarts has seen in many years, i award gryffindor house fifty points.” gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; the stars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy_Weasley could be heard telling the other prefects, “my brother, you know! my youngest brother! got past Minerva_McGonagall’s giant chess set!” at last there was silence again. “second — to miss Hermione_Granger … for the use of cool logic in the face of fire, i award gryffindor house fifty points.” Hermione_Granger buried her face in her arms; Harry_Potter strongly suspected she had burst into tears. gryffindors up and down the table were beside themselves — they were a hundred points up. “third — to mr. Harry_Potter …” said Albus_Dumbledore. the room went deadly quiet. “… for pure nerve and outstanding courage, i award gryffindor house sixty points.” the din was deafening. those who could add up while yelling themselves hoarse knew that gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly the same as slytherin. they had tied for the house cup — if only Albus_Dumbledore had given Harry_Potter just one more point. Albus_Dumbledore raised his hand. the room gradually fell silent. “there are all kinds of courage,” said Albus_Dumbledore, smiling. “it takes a great deal of brAvery_II to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. i therefore award ten points to mr. Neville_Longbottom.” someone standing outside the great hall might well have thought some sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted from the gryffindor table. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stood up to yell and cheer as Neville_Longbottom, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. he had never won so much as a point for gryffindor before. Harry_Potter, still cheering, nudged Ronald_Weasley in the ribs and pointed at malfoy, who couldn’t have looked more stunned and horrified if he’d just had the body-bind curse put on him. “which means,” Albus_Dumbledore called over the storm of applause, for even ravenclaw and hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of slytherin, “we need a little change of decoration.” he clapped his hands. in an instant, the green hangings became scarlet and the silver became gold; the huge slytherin serpent vanished and a towering gryffindor lion took its place. snape was shaking professor Minerva_McGonagall’s hand, with a horrible, forced smile. he caught Harry_Potter’s eye and Harry_Potter knew at once that snape’s feelings toward him hadn’t changed one jot. this didn’t worry Harry_Potter. it seemed as though life would be back to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at hogwarts. it was the best evening of Harry_Potter’s life, better than winning at quidditch, or christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls … he would never, ever forget tonight. Harry_Potter had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but come they did. to their great surprise, both he and Ronald_Weasley passed with good marks; Hermione_Granger, of course, had the best grades of the first years. even Neville_Longbottom scraped through, his good herbology mark making up for his abysmal potions one. they had Hope_Howelld that Goyle, who was almost as stupid as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. it was a shame, but as Ronald_Weasley said, you couldn’t  have everything in life. and suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed, Neville_Longbottom’s toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were handed out to all students, warning them not to use magic over the holidays (“i always Hope_Howell they’ll forget to give us these,” said Fred_Weasley sadly); Rubeus_Hagrid was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across the lake; they were boarding the hogwarts express; talking and laughing as the countryside became greener and tidier; eating bertie bott’s every flavor beans as they sped past muggle towns; pulling off their wizard robes and putting on Jack_Sloperets and coats; pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at king’s cross station. it took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. a wizened old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them go through the gate in twos and threes so they didn’t attract attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at once and alarming the muggles. “you must come and stay this summer,” said Ronald_Weasley “both of you — i’ll send you an owl.” “thanks,” said Harry_Potter, “i’ll need something to look forward to.” people jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the muggle world. some of them called: “bye, Harry_Potter!” “see you, potter!” “still famous,” said Ronald_Weasley grinning at him. “not where i’m going, i promise you,” said Harry_Potter. he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger passed through the gateway together. “there he is, mom, there he is, look!” it was Ginevra_Weasley weasley, ron’s younger sister, but she wasn’t pointing at Ronald_Weasley “Harry_Potter!” she squealed. “look, mom! i can see —” “be quiet, Ginevra_Weasley, and it’s rude to point.” mrs. weasley smiled down at them. “busy year?” she said. “very,” said Harry_Potter. “thanks for the fudge and the sweater, mrs. weasley.” “oh, it was nothing, dear.” 