halloween malfoy couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw that Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley were still at hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectly cheerful. indeed, by the next morning Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley thought that meeting the three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, and they were quite keen to have another one. in the meantime, Harry_Potter filled Ronald_Weasley in about the package that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts_Head_Goblin to hogwarts, and they spent a lot of time wondering what could possibly need such heavy protection. “it’s either really valuable or really dangerous,” said Ronald_Weasley “or both,” said Harry_Potter. but as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object was that it was about two inches long, they didn’t have much chance of guessing what it was without further clues. neither Neville_Longbottom nor Hermione_Granger showed the slightest interest in what lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor. all Neville_Longbottom cared about was never going near the dog again. Hermione_Granger was now refusing to speak to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley but she was such a bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. all they really wanted now was a way of getting back at malfoy, and to their great delight, just such a   thing arrived in the mail about a week later. as the owls flooded into the great hall as usual, everyone’s attention was caught at once by a long, thin package carried by six large screech owls. Harry_Potter was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in this large parcel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped it right in front of him, knocking his bacon to the floor. they had hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top of the parcel. Harry_Potter ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, because it said: do not open the parcel at the table. it contains your new nimbus two thousand, but i don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a broomstick or they’ll all want one. Oliver_Wood will meet you tonight on the quidditch field at seven o’clock for your first training ses‐ sion.  Harry_Potter had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the note to Ronald_Weasley to read. “a nimbus two thousand!” Ronald_Weasley moaned enviously. “i’ve never even touched one.” they  left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick in private before their first class, but halfway across the entrance hall they found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. malfoy seized the package from Harry_Potter and felt it. “that’s a broomstick,” he said, throwing it back to Harry_Potter with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his face. “you’ll be in for it this time, potter, first years aren’t allowed them.” Ronald_Weasley couldn’t resist it. “it’s not any old broomstick,” he said, “it’s a nimbus two thousand. what did you say you’ve got at home, malfoy, a comet two sixty?” Ronald_Weasley grinned at Harry_Potter. “comets look flashy, but they’re not in the same league as the nimbus.” “what would you know about it, weasley, you couldn’t afford half the handle,” malfoy snapped back. “i suppose you and your brothers have to save up twig by twig.”  before Ronald_Weasley could answer, professor flitwick appeared at malfoy’s elbow. “not arguing, i Hope_Howell, boys?” he squeaked. “potters been sent a broomstick, professor,” said malfoy quickly. “yes, yes, that’s right,” said professor flitwick, beaming at Harry_Potter. “professor Minerva_McGonagall told me all about the special circumstances, potter. and what model is it?” “a nimbus two thousand, sir,” said Harry_Potter, fighting not to laugh at the look of horror on malfoy’s face. “and it’s really thanks to malfoy here that i’ve got it,” he added. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley headed upstairs, smothering their laughter at malfoy’s obvious rage and confusion. “well, it’s true,” Harry_Potter chortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase, “if he hadn’t stolen Neville_Longbottom’s remembrall i wouldn’t be on the team. …” “so i suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking rules?” came an angry voice from just behind them. Hermione_Granger was stomping up the stairs, looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry_Potter’s hand. “i thought you weren’t speaking to us?” said Harry_Potter. “yes, don’t stop now,” said Ronald_Weasley “it’s doing us so much good.” Hermione_Granger marched away with her nose in the air. Harry_Potter had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his lessons that day. it kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstick was lying under his bed, or straying off to the quidditch field where he’d be learning to play that night. he bolted his dinner that evening without noticing what he was eating, and then rushed upstairs with Ronald_Weasley to unwrap the nimbus two thousand at last. “wow,” Ronald_Weasley sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto Harry_Potter’s bedspread. even Harry_Potter, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it looked wonderful. sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long tail of neat, straight twigs and nimbus two thousand written in gold near the top. as seven o’clock drew nearer, Harry_Potter left the castle and set off in the dusk toward the quidditch field. he’d never been inside the stadium before. hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that the spectators were high enough to see what was going on. at either end of the field were three golden poles with hoops on the end. they reminded Harry_Potter of the little plastic sticks muggle children blew bubbles through, except that they were fifty feet high. too eager to fly again to wait for wood, Harry_Potter mounted his broomstick and kicked off from the ground. what a feeling — he swooped in and out of the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. the nimbus two thousand turned wherever he wanted at his lightest touch. “hey, potter, come down!” Oliver_Wood had arrived. he was carrying a large wooden crate under his arm. Harry_Potter landed next to him. “very nice,” said wood, his eyes glinting. “i see what Minerva_McGonagall meant … you really are a natural. i’m just going to teach you the rules this evening, then you’ll be joining team practice three times a week.” he opened the crate. inside were four different-sized balls. “right,” said wood. “now, quidditch is easy enough to understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. there are seven players on each side. three of them are called chasers.” “three chasers,” Harry_Potter repeated, as wood took out a bright red ball about the size of a soccer ball. “this ball’s called the quaffle,” said wood. “the chasers throw the quaffle to each other and try and get it through one of the hoops to score a goal. ten points every time the quaffle goes through one of the hoops. follow me?” “the chasers throw the quaffle and put it through the hoops to score,” Harry_Potter recited. “so — that’s sort of like basketball on broomsticks with six hoops, isn’t it?” “what’s basketball?” said wood curiously. “never mind,” said Harry_Potter quickly. “now, there’s another player on each side who’s called the keeper — i’m keeper for gryffindor. i have to fly around our hoops and stop the other team from scoring.” “three chasers, one keeper,” said Harry_Potter, who was determined to remember it all. “and they play with the quaffle. okay, got that. so what are they for?” he pointed at the three balls left inside the box. “i’ll show you now,” said wood. “take this.” he handed Harry_Potter a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat. “i’m going to show you what the bludgers do,” wood said. “these two are the bludgers.” he showed Harry_Potter two identical balls, jet black and slightly smaller than the red quaffle. Harry_Potter noticed that they seemed to be straining to escape the straps holding them inside the box. “stand back,” wood warned Harry_Potter. he bent down and freed one of the bludgers. at once, the black ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at Harry_Potter’s face. Harry_Potter swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking his nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air — it zoomed around their heads and then shot at wood, who dived on top of it and managed to pin it to the ground. “see?” wood panted, forcing the struggling bludger back into the crate and strapping it down safely. “the bludgers rocket around, trying to knock players off their brooms. that’s why you have two beaters on each team — the weasley twins are ours — it’s their job to protect their side from the bludgers and try and knock them toward the other team. so — think you’ve got all that?” “three chasers try and score with the quaffle; the keeper guards the goal posts; the beaters keep the bludgers away from their team,” Harry_Potter reeled off. “very good,” said wood. “er — have the bludgers ever killed anyone?” Harry_Potter asked, hoping he sounded offhand. “never at hogwarts. we’ve had a couple of broken jaws but nothing worse than that. now, the last member of the team is the seeker. that’s you. and you don’t have to worry about the quaffle or the bludgers —” “— unless they crack my head open.” “don’t worry, the weasleys are more than a match for the bludgers — i mean, they’re like a pair of human bludgers themselves.” wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and last ball. compared with the quaffle and the bludgers, it was tiny, about the size of a large walnut. it was bright gold and had little fluttering silver wings. “this,” said wood, “is the golden snitch, and it’s the most important ball of the lot. it’s very hard to catch because it’s so fast and difficult to see. it’s the seeker’s job to catch it. you’ve got to weave in and out of the chasers, beaters, bludgers, and quaffle to get it before the other team’s seeker, because whichever seeker catches the snitch wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they nearly always win. that’s why seekers get fouled so much. a game of quidditch only ends when the snitch is caught, so it can go on for ages — i think the record is three months, they had to keep bringing on substitutes so the players could get some sleep. “well, that’s it — any questions?” Harry_Potter shook his head. he understood what he had to do all right, it was doing it that was going to be the problem. “we won’t practice with the snitch yet,” said wood, carefully shutting it back inside the crate, “it’s too dark, we might lose it. let’s try you out with a few of these.” he pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket and a few minutes later, he and Harry_Potter were up in the air, wood throwing the golf balls as hard as he could in every direction for Harry_Potter to catch. Harry_Potter didn’t miss a single one, and wood was delighted. after half an hour, night had really fallen and they couldn’t carry on. “that quidditch cup’ll have our name on it this year,” said wood happily as they trudged back up to the castle. “i wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better than Charles_Weasley weasley, and he could have played for england if he hadn’t gone off chasing dragons.” perhaps it was because he was now so busy, what with quidditch practice three evenings a week on top of all his homework, but Harry_Potter could hardly believe it when he realized that he’d already been at hogwarts two months. the castle felt more like home than privet drive ever had. his lessons, too, were becoming more and more interesting now that they had mastered the basics. on halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of  baking pumpkin wafting through the corridors. even better, professor flitwick announced in charms that he thought they were ready to start making objects fly, something they had all been dying to try since they’d seen him make Neville_Longbottom’s toad zoom around the classroom. professor flitwick put the class into pairs to practice. Harry_Potter’s partner was Seamus_Finnigan (which was a relief, because Neville_Longbottom had been trying to catch his eye). Ronald_Weasley however, was to be working with Hermione_Granger. it was hard to tell whether Ronald_Weasley or Hermione_Granger was angrier about this. she hadn’t spoken to either of them since the day Harry_Potter’s broomstick had arrived. “now, don’t forget that nice wrist movement we’ve been practicing!” squeaked professor flitwick, perched on top of his pile of books as usual. “swish and flick, remember, swish and flick. and saying the magic words properly is very important, too — never forget wizard baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f’ and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his chest.” it was very difficult. Harry_Potter and Seamus_Finnigan swished and flicked, but the feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just lay on the desktop. Seamus_Finnigan got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set fire to it — Harry_Potter had to put it out with his hat. Ronald_Weasley at the next table, wasn’t having much more luck. “wingardium leviosa!” he shouted, waving his long arms like a windmill. “you’re saying it wrong,” Harry_Potter heard Hermione_Granger snap. “it’s wing-gar-dium levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ nice and long.” “you do it, then, if you’re so clever,” Ronald_Weasley snarled. Hermione_Granger rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked her wand, and said, “wingardium leviosa!” their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their heads. “oh, well done!” cried professor flitwick, clapping. “everyone see here, miss granger’s done it!” Ronald_Weasley was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. “it’s no wonder no one can stand her,” he said to Harry_Potter as they pushed their way into the crowded corridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly.” someone knocked into Harry_Potter as they hurried past him. it was Hermione_Granger. Harry_Potter caught a glimpse of her face — and was startled to see that she was in tears. “i think she heard you.” “so?” said Ronald_Weasley but he looked a bit uncomfortable. “she must’ve noticed she’s got no friends.” Hermione_Granger didn’t turn up for the next class and wasn’t seen all afternoon. on their way down to the great hall for the halloween feast, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley overheard Parvati_Patil telling her friend Lavender_Brown that Hermione_Granger was crying in the girls’ bathroom and wanted to be left alone. Ronald_Weasley looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later they had entered the great hall, where the halloween decorations put Hermione_Granger out of their minds. a thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling while a thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds, making the candles in the pumpkins stutter. the feast appeared suddenly on the golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet. Harry_Potter was just helping himself to a baked potato when professor Quirinus_Quirrell came sprinting into the hall, his turban askew and terror on his face. everyone stared as he reached professor Albus_Dumbledore’s chair, slumped against the table, and gasped, “troll — in the Mundungus_Fletchereons — thought you ought to know.” he then sank to the floor in a dead faint. there was an uproar. it took several purple firecrackers exploding from the end of professor Albus_Dumbledore’s wand to bring silence. “prefects,” he rumbled, “lead your houses back to the dormitories immediately!” Percy_Weasley was in his element. “follow me! stick together, first years! no need to fear the troll if you follow my orders! stay close behind me, now. make way, first years coming through! excuse me, i’m a prefect!” “how could a troll get in?” Harry_Potter asked as they climbed the stairs. “don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,” said Ronald_Weasley “maybe Peeves let it in for a halloween joke.” in they passed different groups of people hurrying different directions. as they jostled their way through a crowd of confused hufflepuffs, Harry_Potter suddenly grabbed ron’s arm. “i’ve just thought — Hermione_Granger.” “what about her?” “she doesn’t know about the troll.” Ronald_Weasley bit his lip. “oh, all right,” he snapped. “but Percy_Weasley’d better not see us.” ducking down, they joined the hufflepuffs going the other way, slipped down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls’ bathroom. they had just turned the corner when they heard quick footsteps behind them. “Percy_Weasley!” hissed Ronald_Weasley pulling Harry_Potter behind a large stone griffin. peering around it, however, they saw not Percy_Weasley but snape. he crossed the corridor and disappeared from view. “what’s he doing?” Harry_Potter whispered. “why isn’t he down in the Mundungus_Fletchereons with the rest of the teachers?” “search me.” quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor after snape’s fading footsteps. “he’s heading for the third floor,” Harry_Potter said, but Ronald_Weasley held up his hand. “can you smell something?” Harry_Potter sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean. and then they heard it — a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Ronald_Weasley pointed — at the end of a passage to the left, something huge was moving toward them. they shrank into the shadows and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight. it was a horrible sight. twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull, granite gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its small bald head perched on top like a coconut. it had short legs thick as tree trunks with flat, horny feet. the smell coming from it was incredible. it was holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because its arms were so long. the troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. it waggled its long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouched slowly into the room. “the key’s in the lock,” Harry_Potter muttered. “we could lock it in.” “good idea,” said Ronald_Weasley nervously. they edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn’t about to come out of it. with one great leap, Harry_Potter managed to grab the key, slam the door, and lock it. “yes!” flushed with their victory, they started to run back up the passage, but as they reached the corner they heard something that made their hearts stop — a high, petrified scream — and it was coming from the chamber they’d just chained up. “oh, no,” said Ronald_Weasley pale as the Bloody_Baron. “it’s the girls’ bathroom!” Harry_Potter gasped. “Hermione_Granger!” they said together. it was the last thing they wanted to do, but what choice did they have? wheeling around, they sprinted back to the door and turned the key, fumbling in their panic. Harry_Potter pulled the door open and they ran inside. Hermione_Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if she was about to faint. the troll was advancing on her, knocking the sinks off the walls as it went. “confuse it!” Harry_Potter said desperately to Ronald_Weasley and, seizing a tap, he threw it as hard as he could against the wall. the troll stopped a few feet from Hermione_Granger. it lumbered around, blinking stupidly, to see what had made the noise. its mean little eyes saw Harry_Potter. it hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its club as it went. “oy, pea-brain!” yelled Ronald_Weasley from the other side of the chamber, and he threw a metal pipe at it. the troll didn’t even seem to notice the pipe hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turning its ugly snout toward Ronald_Weasley instead, giving Harry_Potter time to run around it. “come on, run, run!” Harry_Potter yelled at Hermione_Granger, trying to pull her toward the door, but she couldn’t move, she was still flat against the wall, her mouth open with terror. the shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. it roared again and started toward Ronald_Weasley who was nearest and had no way to escape. Harry_Potter then did something that was both very brave and very stupid: he took a great running jump and managed to fasten his arms around the troll’s neck from behind. the troll couldn’t feel Harry_Potter hanging there, but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bit of wood up its nose, and Harry_Potter’s wand had still been in his hand when he’d jumped — it had gone straight up one of the troll’s nostrils. howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its club, with Harry_Potter clinging on for dear life; any second, the troll was going to rip him off or catch him a terrible blow with the club. Hermione_Granger had sunk to the floor in fright; Ronald_Weasley pulled out his own wand — not knowing what he was going to do he heard himself cry the first spell that came into his head: “wingardium leviosa!” the club flew suddenly out of the troll’s hand, rose high, high up into the air, turned slowly over — and dropped, with a sickening crack, onto its owner’s head. the troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble. Harry_Potter got to his feet. he was shaking and out of breath. Ronald_Weasley was standing there with his wand still raised, staring at what he had done. it was Hermione_Granger who spoke first. “is it — dead?” “i don’t think so,” said Harry_Potter, “i think it’s just been knocked out.” he bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll’s nose. it was covered in what looked like lumpy gray glue. “urgh — troll boogers.” he wiped it on the troll’s trousers. a sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of them look up. they hadn’t realized what a racket they had been making, but of course, someone downstairs must have heard the crashes and the troll’s roars. a moment later, professor Minerva_McGonagall had come bursting into the room, closely followed by snape, with Quirinus_Quirrell bringing up the rear. Quirinus_Quirrell took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quickly down on a toilet, clutching his heart. snape bent over the troll. professor Minerva_McGonagall was looking at Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter had never seen her look so angry. her lips were white. Hope_Howells of winning fifty points for gryffindor faded quickly from Harry_Potter’s mind. “what on earth were you thinking of?” said professor Minerva_McGonagall, with cold fury in her voice. Harry_Potter looked at Ronald_Weasley who was still standing with his wand in the air. “you’re lucky you weren’t killed. why aren’t you in your dormitory?” snape gave Harry_Potter a swift, piercing look. Harry_Potter looked at the floor. he wished Ronald_Weasley would put his wand down. then a small voice came out of the shadows. “please, professor Minerva_McGonagall — they were looking for me.” “miss granger!” Hermione_Granger had managed to get to her feet at last. “i went looking for the troll because i — i thought i could deal with it on my own — you know, because i’ve read all about them.” Ronald_Weasley dropped his wand. Hermione_Granger, telling a downright lie to a teacher? “if they hadn’t found me, i’d be dead now. Harry_Potter stuck his wand up its nose and Ronald_Weasley knocked it out with its own club. they didn’t have time to come and fetch anyone. it was about to finish me off when they arrived.” Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley tried to look as though this story wasn’t new to them. “well — in that case …” said professor Minerva_McGonagall, staring at the three of them, “miss granger, you foolish girl, how could you think of tackling a mountain troll on your own?” Hermione_Granger hung her head. Harry_Potter was speechless. Hermione_Granger was the last person to do anything against the rules, and here she was, pretending she had, to get them out of trouble. it was as if snape had started handing out sweets. “miss granger, five points will be taken from gryffindor for this,” said professor Minerva_McGonagall. “i’m very disappointed in you. if you’re not hurt at all, you’d better get off to gryffindor tower. students are finishing the feast in their houses.” Hermione_Granger left. professor Minerva_McGonagall turned to Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley “well, i still say you were lucky, but not many first years could have taken on a full-grown mountain troll. you each win gryffindor five points. professor Albus_Dumbledore will be informed of this. you may go.” they hurried out of the chamber and didn’t speak at all until they had climbed two floors up. it was a relief to be away from the smell of the troll, quite apart from anything else. “we should have gotten more than ten points,” Ronald_Weasley grumbled. “five, you mean, once she’s taken off Hermione_Granger’s.” “good of her to get us out of trouble like that,” Ronald_Weasley admitted. “mind you, we did save her.” “she might not have needed saving if we hadn’t locked the thing in with her,” Harry_Potter reminded him. they had reached the portrait of the Fat_Lady. “pig snout,” they said and entered. the common room was packed and noisy. everyone was eating the food that had been sent up. Hermione_Granger, however, stood alone by the door, waiting for them. there was a very embarrassed pause. then, none of them looking at each other, they all said “thanks,” and hurried off to get plates. but from that moment on, Hermione_Granger became their friend. there are some things you can’t share without ending up liking each other, and knocking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them. 