diagon alley Harry_Potter woke early the next morning. although he could tell it was daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight. “it was a dream,” he told himself firmly. “i dreamed a giant called Rubeus_Hagrid came to tell me i was going to a school for wizards. when i open my eyes i’ll be at home in my cupboard.” there was suddenly a loud tapping noise. and there’s aunt Petunia_Dursley knocking on the door, Harry_Potter thought, his heart sinking. but he still didn’t open his eyes. it had been such a good dream. tap. tap. tap. “all right,” Harry_Potter mumbled, “i’m getting up.” he sat up and Rubeus_Hagrid’s heavy coat fell off him. the hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Rubeus_Hagrid himself was asleep on the collapsed sofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaper held in its beak. Harry_Potter scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large balloon was swelling inside him. he went straight to the window and jerked it open. the owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Rubeus_Hagrid, who didn’t wake up. the owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to attack   Rubeus_Hagrid’s coat. “don’t do that.” Harry_Potter tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its beak fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat. “Rubeus_Hagrid!” said Harry_Potter loudly. “there’s an owl —” “pay him,” Rubeus_Hagrid grunted into the sofa. “what?” “he wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. look in the pockets.” Rubeus_Hagrid’s coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets — bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags … finally, Harry_Potter pulled out a handful of strange-looking coins. “give him five knuts,” said Rubeus_Hagrid sleepily. “knuts?” “the little bronze ones.” Harry_Potter counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl held out his leg so Harry_Potter could put the money into a small leather pouch tied to it. then he flew off through the open window. Rubeus_Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched. “best be off, Harry_Potter, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter london an’ buy all yer stuff fer school.” Harry_Potter was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them. he had just thought of something that made him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had got a puncture. “um — Rubeus_Hagrid?” “mm?” said Rubeus_Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge boots. “i haven’t got any money — and you heard uncle Vernon_Dursley last night … he won’t pay for me to go and learn magic.” “don’t worry about that,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, standing up and scratching his head. “d’yeh think yer parents didn’t leave yeh anything?” “but if their house was desTroyed —” “they didn’ keep their gold in the house, boy! nah, first stop fer us is Gringotts_Head_Goblin. wizards’ bank. have a sausage, they’re not bad cold — an’ i wouldn’ say no teh a bit o’ yer birthday cake, neither.” “wizards have banks?” “just the one. Gringotts_Head_Goblin. run by goblins.” Harry_Potter dropped the bit of sausage he was holding. “goblins?” “yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it, i’ll tell yeh that. never mess with goblins, Harry_Potter. Gringotts_Head_Goblin is the safest place in the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe — ’cept maybe hogwarts. as a matter o’ fact, i gotta visit Gringotts_Head_Goblin anyway fer Albus_Dumbledore. hogwarts business.” Rubeus_Hagrid drew himself up proudly. “he usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him. fetchin’ you — gettin’ things from Gringotts_Head_Goblin — knows he can trust me, see. “got everythin’? come on, then.” Harry_Potter followed Rubeus_Hagrid out onto the rock. the sky was quite clear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. the boat uncle Vernon_Dursley had hired was still there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. “how did you get here?” Harry_Potter asked, looking around for another boat. “flew,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “flew?” “yeah — but we’ll go back in this. not s’pposed ter use magic now i’ve got yeh.” they settled down in the boat, Harry_Potter still staring at Rubeus_Hagrid, trying to imagine him flying. “seems a shame ter row, though,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, giving Harry_Potter another of his sideways looks. “if i was ter — er — speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin’ it at hogwarts?” “of course not,” said Harry_Potter, eager to see more magic. Rubeus_Hagrid pulled out the pink umbrella again, tapped it twice on the side of the boat, and they sped off toward land. “why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts_Head_Goblin?” Harry_Potter asked. “spells — enchantments,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, unfolding his newspaper as he spoke. “they say there’s dragons guardin’ the high-security vaults. and then yeh gotta find yer way — Gringotts_Head_Goblin is hundreds of Miles_Bletchley under london, see. deep under the underground. yeh’d die of hunger tryin’ ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat.” Harry_Potter sat and thought about this while Rubeus_Hagrid read his newspaper, the daily prophet. Harry_Potter had learned from uncle Vernon_Dursley that people liked to be left alone while they did this, but it was very difficult, he’d never had so many questions in his life. “ministry o’ magic messin’ things up as usual,” Rubeus_Hagrid muttered, turning the page. “there’s a ministry of magic?” Harry_Potter asked, before he could stop himself. “ ’course,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “they wanted Albus_Dumbledore fer minister, o’ course, but he’d never leave hogwarts, so old Cornelius_Fudge got the job. bungler if ever there was one. so he pelts Albus_Dumbledore with owls every morning, askin’ fer advice.” “but what does a ministry of magic do?” “well, their main job is to keep it from the muggles that there’s still witches an’ wizards up an’ down the country.” “why?” “why? blimey, Harry_Potter, everyone’d be wantin’ magic solutions to their problems. nah, we’re best left alone.” at this moment the boat bumped gently into the harbor wall. Rubeus_Hagrid folded up his newspaper, and they clambered up the stone steps onto the street. passersby stared a lot at Rubeus_Hagrid as they walked through the little town to the station. Harry_Potter couldn’t blame them. not only was Rubeus_Hagrid twice as tall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, “see that, Harry_Potter? things these muggles dream up, eh?” “Rubeus_Hagrid,” said Harry_Potter, panting a bit as he ran to keep up, “did you say there are dragons at Gringotts_Head_Goblin?” “well, so they say,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “crikey, i’d like a dragon.” “you’d like one?” “wanted one ever since i was a kid — here we go.” they had reached the station. there was a train to london in five minutes’ time. Rubeus_Hagrid, who didn’t understand “muggle money,” as he called it, gave the bills to Harry_Potter so he could buy their tickets. people stared more than ever on the train. Rubeus_Hagrid took up two seats and sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent. “still got yer letter, Harry_Potter?” he asked as he counted stitches. Harry_Potter took the parchment envelope out of his pocket. “good,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “there’s a list there of everything yeh need.” Harry_Potter unfolded a second piece of paper he hadn’t noticed the night before, and read: hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry uniform first-year students will require: 1. three sets of plain work robes (black) 2. one plain pointed hat (black) for day wear 3. one pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar) 4. one winter cloak (black, silver fastenings) please note that all pupils’ clothes should carry name tags course books all students should have a copy of each of the following: the standard book of spells (grade 1) by miranda goshawk a history of magic by Bathilda_Bagshot magical theory by adAlbert_Runcorn waffling a beginners’ guide to transfiguration by emEric_Munch switch one thousand magical herbs and fungi by phyllida spore magical drafts and potions by arsenius jigger fantastic beasts and where to find them by newt scamander the dark forces: a guide to self-protection by quentin trimble other equipment 1 wand 1 cauldron (pewter, standard size 2) 1 set glass or crystal phials 1 telescope 1 set brass scales     students may also bring an owl or a cat or a toad parents are reminded that first years are not allowed their own broomsticks “can we buy all this in london?” Harry_Potter wondered aloud. “if yeh know where to go,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. Harry_Potter had never been to london before. although Rubeus_Hagrid seemed to know where he was going, he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary way. he got stuck in the ticket barrier on the underground, and complained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow. “i don’t know how the muggles manage without magic,” he said as they climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustling road lined with shops. Rubeus_Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily; all Harry_Potter had to do was keep close behind him. they passed book shops and music stores, hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that looked as if it could sell you a magic wand. this was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people. could there really be piles of wizard gold buried Miles_Bletchley beneath them? were there really shops that sold spell books and broomsticks? might this not all be some huge joke that Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maned up? if Harry_Potter hadn’t known that Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had no sense of humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything Rubeus_Hagrid had told him so far was unbelievable, Harry_Potter couldn’t help trusting him. “this is it,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, coming to a halt, “the leaky cauldron. it’s a famous place.” it was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. if Rubeus_Hagrid hadn’t pointed it out, Harry_Potter wouldn’t have noticed it was there. the people hurrying by didn’t glance at it. their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the record shop on the other as if they couldn’t see the leaky cauldron at all. in fact, Harry_Potter had the most peculiar feeling that only he and Rubeus_Hagrid could see it. before he could mention this, Rubeus_Hagrid had steered him inside. for a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. a few old    women were sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. one of them was smoking a long pipe. a little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. the low buzz of chatter stopped when they walked in. everyone seemed to know Rubeus_Hagrid; they waved and smiled at him, and the bartender reached for a glass, saying, “the usual, Rubeus_Hagrid?” “can’t, tom, i’m on hogwarts business,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, clapping his great hand on Harry_Potter’s shoulder and making Harry_Potter’s knees buckle. “good lord,” said the bartender, peering at Harry_Potter, “is this — can this be — ?” the leaky cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent. “bless my soul,” whispered the old bartender, “Harry_Potter … what an honor.” he hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Harry_Potter and seized his hand, tears in his eyes. “welcome back, mr. potter, welcome back.” Harry_Potter didn’t know what to say. everyone was looking at him. the old woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out. Rubeus_Hagrid was beaming. then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment, Harry_Potter found himself shaking hands with everyone in the leaky cauldron. “Doris_Crockford, mr. potter, can’t believe i’m meeting you at last.” “so proud, mr. potter, i’m just so proud.” “always wanted to shake your hand — i’m all of a flutter.” “delighted, mr. potter, just can’t tell you, diggle’s the name, Dedalus_Diggle.” “i’ve seen you before!” said Harry_Potter, as Dedalus_Diggle’s top hat fell off in his excitement. “you bowed to me once in a shop.” “he remembers!” cried Dedalus_Diggle, looking around at everyone. “did you hear that? he remembers me!” Harry_Potter shook hands again and again — Doris_Crockford kept coming back for more. a pale young man made his way forward, very nervously. one of his eyes was twitching. “professor Quirinus_Quirrell!” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “Harry_Potter, professor Quirinus_Quirrell will be one of your teachers at hogwarts.” “p-p-potter,” stammered professor Quirinus_Quirrell, grasping Harry_Potter’s hand, “c-can’t t-tell you how p-pleased i am to meet you.” “what sort of magic do you teach, professor Quirinus_Quirrell?” “d-defense against the d-d-dark arts,” muttered professor Quirinus_Quirrell, as though he’d rather not think about it. “n-not that you n-need it, eh, p-p-potter?” he laughed nervously. “you’ll be g-getting all your equipment, i suppose? i’ve g-got to p- pick up a new b-book on vampires, m-myself.” he looked terrified at the very thought. but the others wouldn’t let professor Quirinus_Quirrell keep Harry_Potter to himself. it took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. at last, Rubeus_Hagrid managed to make himself heard over the babble. “must get on — lots ter buy. come on, Harry_Potter.” Doris_Crockford shook Harry_Potter’s hand one last time, and Rubeus_Hagrid led them through the bar and out into a small, walled courtyard, where there was nothing but a trash can and a few weeds. Rubeus_Hagrid grinned at Harry_Potter. “told yeh, didn’t i? told yeh you was famous. even professor Quirinus_Quirrell was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind you, he’s usually tremblin’.” “is he always that nervous?” “oh, yeah. poor bloke. brilliant mind. he was fine while he was studyin’ outta books but then he took a year off ter get some firsthand experience. … they say he met vampires in the black forest, and there was a nasty bit o’ trouble with a hag — never been the same since. scared of the students, scared of his own subject — now, where’s me umbrella?” vampires? hags? Harry_Potter’s head was swimming. Rubeus_Hagrid, meanwhile, was counting bricks in the wall above the trash can. “three up … two across …” he muttered. “right, stand back, Harry_Potter.” he tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella. the brick he had touched quivered — it wriggled — in the middle, a small hole appeared — it grew wider and wider — a second later they were facing an archway large enough even for Rubeus_Hagrid, an archway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. “welcome,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, “to diagon alley.” he grinned at Harry_Potter’s amazement. they stepped through the archway. Harry_Potter looked quickly over his shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly back into solid wall. the sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop. cauldrons — all sizes — copper, brass, pewter, silver — self-stirring — collapsible, said a sign hanging over them. “yeah, you’ll be needin’ one,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, “but we gotta get yer money first.” Harry_Potter wished he had about eight more eyes. he turned his head in every direction as they walked up the street, trying to look at everything at once: the shops, the things outside them, the people doing their shopping. a plump woman outside an apothecary was shaking her head as they passed, saying, “dragon liver, sixteen sickles an ounce, they’re mad. a low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign saying eeylops owl emporium — tawny, screech, barn, brown, and snowy. several boys of about Harry_Potter’s age had their noses pressed against a window with broomsticks in it. “look,” Harry_Potter heard one of them say, “the new nimbus two thousand — fastest ever —” there were shops selling robes, shops selling telescopes and strange silver instruments Harry_Potter had never seen before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels’ eyes, tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles, globes of the moon. … “Gringotts_Head_Goblin,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. they had reached a snowy white building that towered over the other little shops. standing beside its burnished bronze doors, wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold, was — “yeah, that’s a goblin,” said Rubeus_Hagrid quietly as they walked up the white stone steps toward him. the goblin was about a head shorter than Harry_Potter. he had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Harry_Potter noticed, very long fingers and feet. he bowed as they walked inside. now they were facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon them: enter, stranger, but take heed of what awaits the sin of greed, for those who take, but do not earn, must pay most dearly in their turn. so if you seek beneath our floors a treasure that was never yours, thief, you have been warned, beware of finding more than treasure there. “like i said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. a pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a vast marble hall. about a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. there were too many doors to count leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of these. Rubeus_Hagrid and Harry_Potter made for the counter. “morning,” said Rubeus_Hagrid to a free goblin. “we’ve come ter take some money outta mr. Harry_Potter’s safe.” “you have his key, sir?” “got it here somewhere,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, and he started emptying his pockets onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dog biscuits over the goblins book of numbers. the goblin wrinkled his nose. Harry_Potter watched the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing coals. “got it,” said Rubeus_Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key. the goblin looked at it closely. “that seems to be in order.” “an’  from professor Albus_Dumbledore,” said Rubeus_Hagrid importantly, throwing out his chest. “it’s about the you-know-what in vault seven hundred and thirteen.” i’ve also got a  letter here  the goblin read the letter carefully. “very well,” he said, handing it back to Rubeus_Hagrid, “i will have someone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!” Griphook was yet another goblin. once Rubeus_Hagrid had   crammed all the dog biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry_Potter followed Griphook toward one of the doors leading off the hall. “what’s the you-know-what in vault seven hundred and thirteen?” Harry_Potter asked. “can’t tell yeh that,” said Rubeus_Hagrid mysteriously. “very secret. hogwarts business. Albus_Dumbledore’s trusted me. more’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.” Griphook held the door open for them. Harry_Potter, who had ex‐ pected more marble, was surprised. they were in a narrow stone passageway lit with flaming torches. it sloped steeply downward and there were little railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a small cart came hurtling up the tracks toward them. they climbed in — Rubeus_Hagrid with some difficulty — and were off. at first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Harry_Potter tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left, but it was impossible. the rattling cart seemed to know its own way, because Griphook wasn’t steering. Harry_Potter’s eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but he kept them wide open. once, he thought he saw a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late — they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor. “i never know,” Harry_Potter called to Rubeus_Hagrid over the noise of the cart, “what’s the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?” “stalagmite’s got an ‘m’ in it,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “an’ don’ ask me questions just now, i think i’m gonna be sick.” he did look very green, and when the cart stopped at last beside a small door in the passage wall, Rubeus_Hagrid got out and had to lean against the wall to stop his knees from trembling. Griphook unlocked the door. a lot of green smoke came billowing out, and as it cleared, Harry_Potter gasped. inside were mounds of gold coins. columns of silver. heaps of little bronze knuts. “all yours,” smiled Rubeus_Hagrid. all Harry_Potter’s — it was incredible. Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley couldn’t have known about this or they’d have had it from him faster than blinking. how often had they complained how much Harry_Potter cost them to keep? and all the time there had been a small fortune belonging to him, buried deep under london. Rubeus_Hagrid helped Harry_Potter pile some of it into a bag. “the gold ones are galleons,” he explained. “seventeen silver sickles to a galleon and twenty-nine knuts to a sickle, it’s easy enough. right, that should be enough fer a couple o’ terms, we’ll keep the rest safe for yeh.” he turned to Griphook. “vault seven hundred and thirteen now, please, and can we go more slowly?” “one speed only,” said Griphook. they were going even deeper now and gathering speed. the air became colder and colder as they hurtled round tight corners. they went rattling over an underground ravine, and Harry_Potter leaned over the side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Rubeus_Hagrid groaned and pulled him back by the scruff of his neck. vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole. “stand back,” said Griphook importantly. he stroked the door gently with one of his long fingers and it simply melted away. “if anyone but a Gringotts_Head_Goblin goblin tried that, they’d be sucked through the door and trapped in there,” said Griphook. “how often do you check to see if anyone’s inside?” Harry_Potter asked. “about once every ten years,” said Griphook with a rather nasty grin. something really extraordinary had to be inside this top security vault, Harry_Potter was sure, and he leaned forward eagerly, expecting to see fabulous jewels at the very least — but at first he thought it was empty. then he noticed a grubby little package wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor. Rubeus_Hagrid picked it up and tucked it deep inside his coat. Harry_Potter longed to know what it was, but knew better than to ask. “come on, back in this infernal cart, and don’t talk to me on the way back, it’s best if i keep me mouth shut,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. one wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside Gringotts_Head_Goblin. Harry_Potter didn’t know where to run first now that he had a bag full of money. he didn’t have to know how many galleons there were to a pound to know that he was holding more money than he’d had in his whole life — more money than even Dudley_Dursley had ever had. “might as well get yer uniform,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, nodding toward madam Malkin’s robes for all occasions. “listen, Harry_Potter, would yeh mind if i slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the leaky cauldron? i hate them Gringotts_Head_Goblin carts.” he did still look a bit sick, so Harry_Potter entered madam Malkin’s shop alone, feeling nervous. madam Malkin was a squat, smiling witch dressed all in mauve. “hogwarts, dear?” she said, when Harry_Potter started to speak. “got the lot here — another young man being fitted up just now, in fact.” in the back of the shop, a boy with a pale, pointed face was standing on a footstool while a second witch pinned up his long black robes. madam Malkin stood Harry_Potter on a stool next to him, slipped a long robe over his head, and began to pin it to the right length. “hello,” said the boy, “hogwarts, too?” “yes,” said Harry_Potter. “my father’s next door buying my books and mother’s up the street looking at wands,” said the boy. he had a bored, drawling voice. “then i’m going to drag them off to look at racing brooms. i don’t see why first years can’t have their own. i think i’ll bully father into getting me one and i’ll smuggle it in somehow.” Harry_Potter was strongly reminded of Dudley_Dursley. “have you got your own broom?” the boy went on. “no,” said Harry_Potter. “play quidditch at all?” “no,” Harry_Potter said again, wondering what on earth quidditch could be. “i do — father says it’s a crime if i’m not picked to play for my house, and i must say, i agree. know what house you’ll be in yet?”  “no,” said Harry_Potter, feeling more stupid by the minute. “well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but i know i’ll be in slytherin, all our family have been — imagine being in hufflepuff, i think i’d leave, wouldn’t you?” “mmm,” said Harry_Potter, wishing he could say something a bit more interesting. “i say, look at that man!” said the boy suddenly, nodding toward the front window. Rubeus_Hagrid was standing there, grinning at Harry_Potter and pointing at two large ice creams to show he couldn’t come in. “that’s Rubeus_Hagrid,” said Harry_Potter, pleased to know something the boy didn’t. “he works at hogwarts.” “oh,” said the boy, “i’ve heard of him. he’s a sort of servant, isn’t he?” “he’s the gamekeeper,” said Harry_Potter. he was liking the boy less and less every second. “yes, exactly. i heard he’s a sort of savage — lives in a hut on the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magic, and ends up setting fire to his bed.” “i think he’s brilliant,” said Harry_Potter coldly. “do you?” said the boy, with a slight sneer. “why is he with you? where are your parents?” “they’re dead,” said Harry_Potter shortly. he didn’t feel much like going into the matter with this boy. “oh, sorry,” said the other, not sounding sorry at all. “but they were our kind, weren’t they?” “they were a witch and wizard, if that’s what you mean.” “i really don’t think they should let the other sort in, do you? they’re just not the same, they’ve never been brought up to know our ways. some of them have never even heard of hogwarts until they get the letter, imagine. i think they should keep it in the old wizarding families. what’s your surname, anyway?” but before Harry_Potter could answer, madam Malkin said, “that’s you done, my dear,” and Harry_Potter, not sorry for an excuse to stop talking to the boy, hopped down from the footstool. “well, i’ll see you at hogwarts, i suppose,” said the drawling boy. Harry_Potter was rather quiet as he ate the ice cream Rubeus_Hagrid had bought him (chocolate and raspberry with chopped nuts). “what’s up?” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “nothing,” Harry_Potter lied. they stopped to buy parchment and quills. Harry_Potter cheered up a bit when he found a bottle of ink that changed color as you wrote. when they had left the shop, he said, “Rubeus_Hagrid, what’s quidditch?” “blimey, Harry_Potter, i keep forgettin’ how little yeh know — not knowin’ about quidditch!” “don’t make me feel worse,” said Harry_Potter. he told Rubeus_Hagrid about the pale boy in madam Malkin’s. “— and he said people from muggle families shouldn’t even be allowed in —” “yer not from a muggle family. if he’d known who yeh were — he’s grown up knowin’ yer name if his parents are wizardin’ folk. you saw what everyone in the leaky cauldron was like when they saw yeh. anyway, what does he know about it, some o’ the best i ever saw were the only ones with magic in ’em in a long line o’ muggles — look at yer mum! look what she had fer a sister!” “so what is quidditch?” “it’s our sport. wizard sport. it’s like — like soccer in the muggle world — everyone follows quidditch — played up in the air on broomsticks and there’s four balls — sorta hard ter explain the rules.” “and what are slytherin and hufflepuff?” “school houses. there’s four. everyone says hufflepuff are a lot o’ duffers, but —” “i bet i’m in hufflepuff,” said Harry_Potter gloomily. “better hufflepuff than slytherin,” said Rubeus_Hagrid darkly. “there’s not a single witch or wizard who went bad who wasn’t in slytherin. Tom_Riddle was one.” “vol-, sorry — Tom_Riddle was at hogwarts?” “years an’ years ago,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. they bought Harry_Potter’s school books in a shop called flourish and blotts where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as paving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with nothing in them at all. even Dudley_Dursley, who never read anything, would have been wild to get his hands on some of these. Rubeus_Hagrid almost had to drag Harry_Potter away from curses and counter-curses (bewitch your friends and befuddle your enemies with the latest revenges: hair loss, jelly-legs, tongue-tying and much, much more) by professor vindictus viridian. “i was trying to find out how to curse Dudley_Dursley.” “i’m not sayin’ that’s not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in very special circumstances,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “an’ anyway, yeh couldn’ work any of them curses yet, yeh’ll need a lot more study before yeh get ter that level.” in the muggle world except  Rubeus_Hagrid wouldn’t let Harry_Potter buy a solid gold cauldron, either (“it says pewter on yer list”), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. then they visited the apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of Fangs, and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. while Rubeus_Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for a supply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry_Potter, Harry_Potter himself examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one galleons each and minuscule, glittery- black beetle eyes (five knuts a scoop). outside the apothecary, Rubeus_Hagrid checked Harry_Potter’s list again. “just yer wand left — oh yeah, an’ i still haven’t got yeh a birthday present.” Harry_Potter felt himself go red. “you don’t have to —” “i know i don’t have to. tell yeh what, i’ll get yer animal. not a toad, toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh’d be laughed at — an’ i don’ like cats, they make me sneeze. i’ll get yer an owl. all the kids want owls, they’re dead useful, carry yer mail an’ everythin’.” twenty minutes later, they left eeylops owl emporium, which had been dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-bright eyes. Harry_Potter now carried a large cage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep with her head under her wing. he couldn’t stop stammering his thanks, sounding just like professor Quirinus_Quirrell. “don’ mention it,” said Rubeus_Hagrid gruffly. “don’ expect you’ve had a lotta presents from them dursleys. just Garrick_Ollivanders left now — only place fer wands, Garrick_Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand.” a magic wand … this was what Harry_Potter had been really looking forward to. the last shop was narrow and shabby. peeling gold letters over the door read Garrick_Ollivanders: makers of fine wands since 382b.c. a single wand lay on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window. a tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as they stepped inside. it was a tiny place, empty except for a single, spindly chair that Rubeus_Hagrid sat on to wait. Harry_Potter felt strangely as though he had entered a very strict library; he swallowed a lot of new questions that had just occurred to him and looked instead at the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly right up to the ceiling. for some reason, the back of his neck prickled. the very dust and silence in here seemed to tingle with some secret magic. “good afternoon,” said a soft voice. Harry_Potter jumped. Rubeus_Hagrid must have jumped, too, because there was a loud crunching noise and he got quickly off the spindly chair. an old man was standing before them, his wide, pale eyes shining like moons through the gloom of the shop. “hello,” said Harry_Potter awkwardly. “ah yes,” said the man. “yes, yes. i thought i’d be seeing you soon. Harry_Potter.” it wasn’t a question. “you have your mother’s eyes. it seems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her first wand. ten and a quarter inches long, swishy, made of willow. nice wand for charm work.” Garrick_Ollivander moved closer to Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter wished he would blink. those silvery eyes were a bit creepy. “your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. eleven inches. pliable. a little more power and excellent for transfiguration. well, i say your father favored it — it’s really the wand that chooses the wizard, of course.” Garrick_Ollivander had come so close that he and Harry_Potter were almost nose to nose. Harry_Potter could see himself reflected in those misty eyes. “and that’s where …” Garrick_Ollivander touched the Harry_Potter scar on Harry_Potter’s forehead with a long, white finger. “i’m sorry to say i sold the wand that did it,” he said softly. “thirteen-and-a-half inches. yew. powerful wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands … well, if i’d known what that wand was going out into the world to do. …” he shook his head and then, to Harry_Potter’s relief, spotted Rubeus_Hagrid. “Rubeus_Hagrid! Rubeus_Hagrid! how nice to see you again. … oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?” “it was, sir, yes,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “good wand, that one. but i suppose they snapped it in half when you got expelled?” said Garrick_Ollivander, suddenly stern. “er — yes, they did, yes,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, shuffling his feet. “i’ve still got the pieces, though,” he added brightly. “but you don’t use them?” said Garrick_Ollivander sharply. “oh, no, sir,” said Rubeus_Hagrid quickly. Harry_Potter noticed he gripped his pink umbrella very tightly as he spoke. “hmmm,” said Garrick_Ollivander, giving Rubeus_Hagrid a piercing look. “well, now — mr. potter. let me see.” he pulled a long tape measure with silver markings out of his pocket. “which is your wand arm?” “er — well, i’m right-handed,” said Harry_Potter. “hold out your arm. that’s it.” he measured Harry_Potter from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round his head. as he measured, he said, “every Garrick_Ollivander wand has a core of a powerful magical substance, mr. potter. we use unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. no two Garrick_Ollivander wands are the same, just as no two unicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite the same. and of course, you will never get such good results with another wizard’s wand.” Harry_Potter suddenly realized that the tape measure, which was measuring between his nostrils, was doing this on its own. Garrick_Ollivander was flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes. “that will do,” he said, and the tape measure crumpled into a heap on the floor. “right then, mr. potter. try this one. beech-wood and dragon heartstring. nine inches. nice and flexible. just take it and give it a wave.” Harry_Potter took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it around a bit, but Garrick_Ollivander snatched it out of his hand almost at once. “maple and phoenix feather. seven inches. quite whippy. try —” Harry_Potter tried — but he had hardly raised the wand when it, too, was snatched back by Garrick_Ollivander. “no, no — here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches, springy. go on, go on, try it out.” Harry_Potter tried. and tried. he had no idea what Garrick_Ollivander was waiting for. the pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the spindly chair, but the more wands Garrick_Ollivander pulled from the shelves, the happier he seemed to become. “tricky customer, eh? not to worry, we’ll find the perfect match here somewhere — i wonder, now — yes, why not — unusual combination — holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, nice and supple.” Harry_Potter took the wand. he felt a sudden warmth in his fingers. he raised the wand above his head, brought it swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework, throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Rubeus_Hagrid whooped and clapped and Garrick_Ollivander cried, “oh, bravo! yes, indeed, oh, very good. well, well, well … how curious … how very curious …” he put Harry_Potter’s wand back into its box and wrapped it in brown paper, still muttering, “curious … curious …” “sorry,” said Harry_Potter, “but what’s curious?” Garrick_Ollivander fixed Harry_Potter with his pale stare. “i remember every wand i’ve ever sold, mr. potter. every single wand. it so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another feather — just one other. it is very curious indeed that you should be destined for this wand when its brother — why, its brother gave you that scar.” Harry_Potter swallowed. “yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. yew. curious indeed how these things happen. the wand chooses the wizard, remember. … i think we must expect great things from you, mr. potter. … after all, he-who-must-not-be-named did great things — terrible, yes, but great.” Harry_Potter shivered. he wasn’t sure he liked Garrick_Ollivander too much. he paid seven gold galleons for his wand, and Garrick_Ollivander bowed them from his shop. the late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry_Potter and Rubeus_Hagrid made their way back down diagon alley, back through the wall, back through the leaky cauldron, now empty. Harry_Potter didn’t speak at all as they walked down the road; he didn’t even notice how much people were gawking at them on the underground, laden as they were with all their funny-shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Harry_Potter’s lap. up another escalator, out into paddington station; Harry_Potter only realized where they were when Rubeus_Hagrid tapped him on the shoulder. “got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,” he said. he bought Harry_Potter a hamburger and they sat down on plastic seats to eat them. Harry_Potter kept looking around. everything looked so strange, somehow. “you all right, Harry_Potter? yer very quiet,” said Rubeus_Hagrid. Harry_Potter wasn’t sure he could explain. he’d just had the best birthday of his life — and yet — he chewed his hamburger, trying to find the words. “everyone thinks i’m special,” he said at last. “all those people in the leaky cauldron, professor Quirinus_Quirrell, Garrick_Ollivander … but i don’t know anything about magic at all. how can they expect great things? i’m famous and i can’t even remember what i’m famous for. i don’t know what happened when vol-, sorry — i mean, the night my parents died.” Rubeus_Hagrid leaned across the table. behind the wild beard and eyebrows he wore a very kind smile. “don’ you worry, Harry_Potter. you’ll learn fast enough. everyone starts at the beginning at hogwarts, you’ll be just fine. just be yerself. i know it’s hard. yeh’ve been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. but yeh’ll have a great time at hogwarts — i did — still do, ’smatter of fact.” Rubeus_Hagrid helped Harry_Potter on to the train that would take him back to Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley, then handed him an envelope. “yer ticket fer hogwarts,” he said. “first o’ september —  king’s cross — it’s all on yer ticket. any problems with Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley, send me a letter with yer owl, she’ll know where to find me. … see yeh soon, Harry_Potter.” the train pulled out of the station. Harry_Potter wanted to watch Rubeus_Hagrid until he was out of sight; he rose in his seat and pressed his nose against the window, but he blinked and Rubeus_Hagrid had gone. the journey from platform nine and three-quarters Harry_Potter’s last month with Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley wasn’t fun. true, Dudley_Dursley was now so scared of Harry_Potter he wouldn’t stay in the same room, while aunt Petunia_Dursley and uncle Vernon_Dursley didn’t shut Harry_Potter in his cupboard, force him to do anything, or shout at him — in fact, they didn’t speak to him at all. half terrified, half furious, they acted as though any chair with Harry_Potter in it were empty. although this was an improvement in many ways, it did become a bit depressing after a while. Harry_Potter kept to his room, with his new owl for company. he had decided to call her Hedwig, a name he had found in a history of magic. his school books were very interesting. he lay on his bed reading late into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. it was lucky that aunt Petunia_Dursley didn’t come in to vacuum anymore, because Hedwig kept bringing back dead mice. every night before he went to sleep, Harry_Potter ticked off another day on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall, counting down to september the first. on the last day of august he thought he’d better speak to his aunt and uncle about getting to king’s cross station the   next day, so he went down to the living room where they were watching a quiz show on television. he cleared his throat to let them know he was there, and Dudley_Dursley screamed and ran from the room. “er — uncle Vernon_Dursley?” uncle Vernon_Dursley grunted to show he was listening. “er — i need to be at king’s cross tomorrow to — to go to hogwarts.” uncle Vernon_Dursley grunted again. “would it be all right if you gave me a lift?” grunt. Harry_Potter supposed that meant yes. “thank you.” he was about to go back upstairs when uncle Vernon_Dursley actually spoke. “funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train. magic carpets all got punctures, have they?” Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. “where is this school, anyway?” “i don’t know,” said Harry_Potter, realizing this for the first time. he pulled the ticket Rubeus_Hagrid had given him out of his pocket. “i just take the train from platform nine and three-quarters at eleven o’clock,” he read. his aunt and uncle stared. “platform what?” “nine and three-quarters.” “don’t talk rubbish,” said uncle Vernon_Dursley. “there is no platform nine and three-quarters.” “it’s on my ticket.” “barking,” said uncle Vernon_Dursley, “howling mad, the lot of them. you’ll see. you just wait. all right, we’ll take you to king’s cross. we’re going up to london tomorrow anyway, or i wouldn’t bother.” “why are you going to london?” Harry_Potter asked, trying to keep things friendly. “taking Dudley_Dursley to the hospital,” growled uncle Vernon_Dursley. “got to have that ruddy tail removed before he goes to smeltings.” Harry_Potter woke at five o’clock the next morning and was too excited and nervous to go back to sleep. he got up and  