the potions master  “there, look.” “where?” “next to the tall kid with the red hair.” “wearing the glasses?” “did you see his face?” “did you see his scar?” whispers followed Harry_Potter from the moment he left his dormitory the next day. people lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him, or doubled back to pass him in the corridors again, staring. Harry_Potter wished they wouldn’t, because he was trying to concentrate on finding his way to classes. there were a hundred and  forty-two staircases at hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewhere different on a friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to jump. then there were doors that wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tickled them in exactly the right place, and doors just that weren’t really doors at all, but solid walls pretending. it was also very hard to remember where any‐ thing was, because it all seemed to move around a lot. the   people in the portraits kept going to visit each other, and Harry_Potter was sure the coats of armor could walk. the ghosts didn’t help, either. it was always a nasty shock when one of them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington was always happy to point new gryffindors in the right direction, but Peeves the poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a trick staircase if you met him when you were late for class. he would drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull rugs from under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech, “got your conk!” even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the caretaker, Argus_Filch. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley managed to get on the wrong side of him on their very first morning. filch found them trying to force their way through a door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. he wouldn’t believe they were lost, was sure they were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threatening to lock them in the Mundungus_Fletchereons when they were rescued by professor Quirinus_Quirrell, who was passing. filch owned a cat called mrs. norris, a scrawny, dust- colored creature with bulging, lamplike eyes just like filch’s. she patrolled the corridors alone. break a rule in front of her, put just one toe out of line, and she’d whisk off for filch, who’d appear, wheezing, two seconds later. filch knew the secret passageways of the school better than anyone (except perhaps the weasley twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any of the ghosts. the students all hated him, and it was the dearest ambition of many to give mrs. norris a good kick. and then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes themselves. there was a lot more to magic, as Harry_Potter quickly found out, than waving your wand and saying a few funny words. they had to study the night skies through their telescopes every wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the movements of the planets. three times a week they went out to the greenhouses behind the castle to study herbology, with a dumpy little witch called professor sprout, where they learned how to take care of all the strange plants and fungi, and found out what they were used for. easily the most boring class was history of magic, which was the only one taught by a ghost. professor binns had been very old indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. binns droned on and on while they scribbled down names and dates, and got emEric_Munch the evil and uric the oddball mixed up. professor flitwick, the charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. at the start of their first class he took the roll call, and when he reached Harry_Potter’s name he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight. professor Minerva_McGonagall was again different. Harry_Potter had been quite right to think she wasn’t a teacher to cross. strict and clever, she gave them a talking-to the moment they sat down in her first class. “transfiguration  is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you will learn at hogwarts,” she said. “anyone messing around in my class will leave and not come back. you have been warned.” then she changed her desk into a pig and back again. they were all very impressed and couldn’t wait to get started, but soon realized they weren’t going to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time. after taking a lot of complicated notes, they were each given a match and started trying to turn it into a needle. by the end of the lesson, only Hermione_Granger had made any difference to her match; professor Minerva_McGonagall showed the class how it had gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione_Granger a rare smile. the class everyone had really been looking forward to was defense against the dark arts, but Quirinus_Quirrell’s lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. his classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said was to ward off a vampire he’d met in romania and was afraid would be coming back to get him one of these days. his turban, he told them, had been given to him by an african prince as a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie, but they weren’t sure they believed this story. for one thing, when Seamus_Finnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirinus_Quirrell had fought off the zombie, Quirinus_Quirrell went pink and started talking about the weather; for another, they had noticed that a funny smell hung around the turban, and the weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full of garlic as well, so that Quirinus_Quirrell was protected wherever he went. Harry_Potter was very relieved to find out that he wasn’t Miles_Bletchley behind everyone else. lots of people had come from muggle families and, like him, hadn’t had any idea that they were witches and wizards. there was so much to learn that even people like Ronald_Weasley didn’t have much of a head start. friday was an important day for Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley they finally managed to find their way down to the great hall for breakfast without getting lost once. “what have we got today?” Harry_Potter asked Ronald_Weasley as he poured sugar on his porridge. “double potions with the slytherins,” said Ronald_Weasley “snape’s head of slytherin house. they say he always favors them — we’ll be able to see if it’s true.” “wish Minerva_McGonagall favored us,” said Harry_Potter. professor Minerva_McGonagall was head of gryffindor house, but it hadn’t stopped her from giving them a huge pile of homework the day before. just then, the mail arrived. Harry_Potter had gotten used to this by now, but it had given him a bit of a shock on the first morning, when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the great hall during breakfast, circling the tables until they saw their owners, and dropping letters and packages onto their laps. Hedwig hadn’t brought Harry_Potter anything so far. she sometimes flew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the other school owls. this morning, however, she fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto Harry_Potter’s plate. Harry_Potter tore it open at once. it said, in a very untidy scrawl: dear Harry_Potter, i know you get friday afternoons off so would you like to come and have a cup of tea with me around three? i want to hear all about your first week. send us an answer  back with Hedwig. Rubeus_Hagrid Harry_Potter borrowed ron’s quill, scribbled yes, please, see you later on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off again. it was lucky that Harry_Potter had tea with Rubeus_Hagrid to look forward to, because the potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to him so far. at the start-of-term banquet, Harry_Potter had gotten the idea that professor snape disliked him. by the end of the first potions lesson, he knew he’d been wrong. snape didn’t dislike Harry_Potter — he hated him. potions lessons took place down in one of the Mundungus_Fletchereons. it was colder here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls. snape, like flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call, and like flitwick, he paused at Harry_Potter’s name. “ah, yes,” he said softly, “Harry_Potter. our new — celebrity.” Draco_Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle sniggered behind their hands. snape finished calling the names and looked up at the class. his eyes were black like Rubeus_Hagrid’s, but they had none of Rubeus_Hagrid’s warmth. they were cold and empty and made you think of dark tunnels. “you are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potion-making,” he began. he spoke in barely more than a whisper, but they caught every word — like professor Minerva_McGonagall, snape had the gift of keeping a class silent without effort. “as there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. i don’t expect you will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the senses. … i can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t as big a bunch of dunderheads as i usually have to teach.” more silence followed this little speech. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ex‐ changed looks with raised eyebrows. Hermione_Granger was on the edge of her seat and looked desperate to start proving  that she wasn’t a dunderhead. “potter!” said snape suddenly. “what would i get if i added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?” powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry_Potter glanced at Ronald_Weasley who looked as stumped as he was; Hermione_Granger’s hand had shot into the air. “i don’t know, sir,” said Harry_Potter. snape’s lips curled into a sneer. “tut, tut — fame clearly isn’t everything.” he ignored Hermione_Granger’s hand. “let’s try again. potter, where would you look if i told you to find me a bezoar?” Hermione_Granger stretched her hand as high into the air as it would go without her leaving her seat, but Harry_Potter didn’t have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. he tried not to look at malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who were shaking with laughter. “i don’t know, sir.” “thought you wouldn’t open a book before coming, eh, potter?” Harry_Potter forced himself to keep looking straight into those cold eyes. he had looked through his books at Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’, but did snape expect him to remember everything in one thousand magical herbs and fungi? snape was still ignoring Hermione_Granger’s quivering hand. “what is the difference, potter, between monkshood and wolfsBane?” at this, Hermione_Granger stood up, her hand stretching toward the Mundungus_Fletchereon ceiling. “i don’t know,” said Harry_Potter quietly. “i think Hermione_Granger does, though, why don’t you try her?” a few people laughed; Harry_Potter caught Seamus_Finnigan’s eye, and Seamus_Finnigan winked. snape, however, was not pleased. “sit down,” he snapped at Hermione_Granger. “for your information, potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the draught of living death. a bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. as for monkshood and wolfsBane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite. well? why aren’t you all copying that down?” there was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. over the noise, snape said, “and a point will be taken from gryffindor house for your cheek, potter.” things didn’t improve for the gryffindors as the potions lesson continued. snape put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a simple potion to cure boils. he swept around in his long black cloak, watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake Fangs, criticizing almost everyone except malfoy, whom he seemed to like. he was just telling everyone to look at the perfect way malfoy had stewed his horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the Mundungus_Fletchereon. Neville_Longbottom had somehow managed to melt Seamus_Finnigan’s cauldron into a twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor, burning holes in people’s shoes. within seconds, the whole class was standing on their stools while Neville_Longbottom, who had been drenched in the potion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs. “idiot boy!” snarled snape, clearing the spilled potion away with one wave of his wand. “i suppose you added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron off the fire?” Neville_Longbottom whimpered as boils started to pop up all over his nose. “take him up to the hospital wing,” snape spat at Seamus_Finnigan. then he rounded on Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley who had been working next to Neville_Longbottom. “you — potter — why didn’t you tell him not to add the quills? thought he’d make you look good if he got it wrong, did you? that’s another point you’ve lost for gryffindor.” this was so unfair that Harry_Potter opened his mouth to argue, but Ronald_Weasley kicked him behind their cauldron. “don’t push it,” he muttered, “i’ve heard snape can turn very nasty.” as they climbed the steps out of the Mundungus_Fletchereon an hour later, Harry_Potter’s mind was racing and his spirits were low. he’d lost two points for gryffindor in his very first week — why did snape hate him so much? “cheer up,” said Ronald_Weasley “snape’s always taking points off Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. can i come and meet Rubeus_Hagrid with you?” at five to three they left the castle and made their way across the grounds. Rubeus_Hagrid lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the forbidden forest. a crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside the front door. when Harry_Potter knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling from inside and several booming barks. then Rubeus_Hagrid’s voice rang out, saying, “back, Fang — back.” Rubeus_Hagrid’s big, hairy face appeared in the crack as he pulled the door open. “hang on,” he said. “back, Fang.” he let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of an enormous black boarhound. there was only one room inside. hams and pheasants were hanging from the ceiling, a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire, and in the corner stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it. “make yerselves at home,” said Rubeus_Hagrid, letting go of Fang, who bounded straight at Ronald_Weasley and started licking his ears. like Rubeus_Hagrid, Fang was clearly not as fierce as he looked. “this is Ronald_Weasley” Harry_Potter told Rubeus_Hagrid, who was pouring boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate. “another weasley, eh?” said Rubeus_Hagrid, glancing at ron’s freckles. “i spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers away from the forest.” the rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almost broke their teeth, but Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley pretended to be enjoying them as they told Rubeus_Hagrid all about their first lessons. Fang rested his head on Harry_Potter’s knee and drooled all over his robes. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley were delighted to hear Rubeus_Hagrid call filch “that old git’’ “an’ as fer that cat, mrs. norris, i’d like ter introduce her to Fang sometime. d’yeh know, every time i go up ter the school, she follows me everywhere? can’t get rid of her — filch puts her up to it.” Harry_Potter told Rubeus_Hagrid about snape’s lesson. Rubeus_Hagrid, like Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter not to worry about it, that snape liked hardly any of the students. “but he seemed to really hate me.” “rubbish!” said Rubeus_Hagrid. “why should he?” yet Harry_Potter couldn’t help thinking that Rubeus_Hagrid didn’t quite meet his eyes when he said that. “how’s yer brother Charles_Weasley?” Rubeus_Hagrid asked Ronald_Weasley “i liked him a lot — great with animals.” Harry_Potter wondered if Rubeus_Hagrid had changed the subject on purpose. while Ronald_Weasley told Rubeus_Hagrid all about Charles_Weasley’s work with dragons, Harry_Potter picked up a piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. it was a cutting from the daily prophet: investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts_Head_Goblin on 31 july, widely believed to be the work of dark wizards or witches unknown. Gringotts_Head_Goblin goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. the vault that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day. “but we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep your noses out if you know what’s good for you,” said a Gringotts_Head_Goblin spokesgoblin this afternoon. Harry_Potter remembered Ronald_Weasley telling him on the train that someone had tried to rob Gringotts_Head_Goblin, but Ronald_Weasley hadn’t mentioned the date. “Rubeus_Hagrid!” said Harry_Potter, “that Gringotts_Head_Goblin break-in happened on my birthday! it might’ve been happening while we were there!” there was no doubt about it, Rubeus_Hagrid definitely didn’t meet Harry_Potter’s eyes this time. he grunted and offered him another rock cake. Harry_Potter read the story again. the vault that was searched had in fact been emptied earlier that same day. Rubeus_Hagrid had emptied vault seven hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying, taking out that grubby little package. had that been what the thieves were looking for? as Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley walked back to the castle for dinner, their pockets weighed down with rock cakes they’d been too polite to refuse, Harry_Potter thought that none of the lessons he’d had so far had given him as much to think about as tea with Rubeus_Hagrid. had Rubeus_Hagrid collected that package just in time? where was it now? and did Rubeus_Hagrid know something about snape that he didn’t want to tell Harry_Potter?  