chapter 14 the thief Harry_Potter opened his eyes and was dazzled by gold and green; he had no idea what had happened, he only knew that he was lying on what seemed to be leaves and twigs. struggling to draw breath into lungs that felt flattened, he blinked and realized that the gaudy glare was sunlight streaming through a canopy of leaves far above him. then an object twitched close to his face. he pushed himself onto his hands and knees, ready to face some small, fierce creature, but saw that the object was ron’s foot. looking around, Harry_Potter saw that they and Hermione_Granger were lying on a forest floor, apparently alone. Harry_Potter’s first thought was of the forbidden forest, and for a moment, even though he knew how foolish and dangerous it would be for them to appear in the grounds of hogwarts, his heart leapt at the thought of sneaking through the trees to Rubeus_Hagrid’s hut. however, in the few moments it took for Ronald_Weasley to give a low groan and Harry_Potter to start crawling toward him, he realized that this was not the forbidden forest: the trees looked younger, they were more widely spaced, the ground clearer. he met Hermione_Granger, also on her hands and knees, at ron’s head. the moment his eyes fell upon Ronald_Weasley all other concerns fled Harry_Potter’s mind, for blood drenched the whole of ron’s left side and his face stood out, grayish- white, against the leaf-strewn earth. the polyjuice potion was wearing off now: Ronald_Weasley was halfway between cattermole and himself in appearance, his hair turning redder and redder as his face drained of the little color it had left. “what’s happened to him?” “splinched,” said Hermione_Granger, her fingers already busy at ron’s sleeve, where the blood was wettest and darkest. Harry_Potter watched, horrified, as she tore open ron’s shirt. he had always thought of splinching as something comical, but this … his insides crawled unpleasantly as Hermione_Granger laid bare ron’s upper arm, where a great chunk of flesh was missing, scooped cleanly away as though by a knife. “Harry_Potter, quickly, in my bag, there’s a small bottle labeled ‘essence of dittany’ —” “bag — right —” Harry_Potter sped to the place where Hermione_Granger had landed, seized the tiny beaded bag, and thrust his hand inside it. at once, object after object began presenting itself to his touch: he felt the leather spines of books, woolly sleeves of jumpers, heels of shoes — “quickly!” he grabbed his wand from the ground and pointed it into the depths of the magical bag. “accio dittany!” a small brown bottle zoomed out of the bag; he caught it and hastened back to Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley whose eyes were now half-closed, strips of white eyeball all that were visible between his lids. “he’s fainted,” said Hermione_Granger, who was also rather pale; she no longer looked like Mafalda_Hopkirk, though her hair was still gray in places. “unstopper it for me, Harry_Potter, my hands are shaking.” Harry_Potter wrenched the stopper off the little bottle, Hermione_Granger took it and poured three drops of the potion onto the bleeding wound. greenish smoke billowed upward and when it had cleared, Harry_Potter saw that the bleeding had stopped. the wound now looked several days old; new skin stretched over what had just been open flesh. “wow,” said Harry_Potter. “it’s all i feel safe doing,” said Hermione_Granger shakily. “there are spells that would put him completely right, but i daren’t try in case i do them wrong and cause more damage. … he’s lost so much blood already. …” “how did he get hurt? i mean” — Harry_Potter shook his head, trying to clear it, to make sense of whatever had just taken place — “why are we here? i thought we were going back to grimmauld place?” Hermione_Granger took a deep breath. she looked close to tears. “Harry_Potter, i don’t think we’re going to be able to go back there.” “what d’you — ?” “as we disapparated, Corban_Yaxley caught hold of me and i couldn’t get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was still holding on when we arrived at grimmauld place, and then — well, i think he must have seen the door, and thought we were stopping there, so he slackened his grip and i managed to shake him off and i brought us here instead!” “but then, where’s he? hang on. … you don’t mean he’s at grimmauld place? he can’t get in there?” her eyes sparkled with unshed tears as she nodded. “Harry_Potter, i think he can. i — i forced him to let go with a revulsion jinx, but i’d already taken him inside the fidelius charm’s protection. since Albus_Dumbledore died, we’re secret-keepers, so i’ve given him the secret, haven’t i?” there was no pretending; Harry_Potter was sure she was right. it was a serious blow. if Corban_Yaxley could now get inside the house, there was no way that they could return. even now, he could be bringing other death eaters in there by apparition. Gloomy_nuns and oppressive though the house was, it had been their one safe refuge: even, now that Kreacher was so much happier and friendlier, a kind of home. with a twinge of regret that had nothing to do with food, Harry_Potter imagined the house-elf busying himself over the steak- and-kidney pie that Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger would never eat. “Harry_Potter, i’m sorry, i’m so sorry!” “don’t be stupid, it wasn’t your fault! if anything, it was mine. …” Harry_Potter put his hand in his pocket and drew out Alastor_Moody’s eye. Hermione_Granger recoiled, looking horrified. “umbridge had stuck it to her office door, to spy on people. i couldn’t leave it there … but that’s how they knew there were intruders.” before Hermione_Granger could answer, Ronald_Weasley groaned and opened his eyes. he was still gray and his face glistened with sweat. “how d’you feel?” Hermione_Granger whispered. “lousy,” croaked Ronald_Weasley wincing as he felt his injured arm. “where are we?” “in the woods where they held the quidditch world cup,” said Hermione_Granger. “i wanted somewhere enclosed, undercover, and this was —” “— the first place you thought of,” Harry_Potter finished for her, glancing around at the apparently deserted glade. he could not help remembering what had happened the last time they had apparated to the first place Hermione_Granger had thought of — how death eaters had found them within minutes. had it been legilimency? did voldemort or his henchmen know, even now, where Hermione_Granger had taken them? “d’you reckon we should move on?” Ronald_Weasley asked Harry_Potter, and Harry_Potter could tell by the look on ron’s face that he was thinking the same. “i dunno.” Ronald_Weasley still looked pale and clammy. he had made no attempt to sit up and it looked as though he was too weak to do so. the prospect of moving him was daunting. “let’s stay here for now,” Harry_Potter said. looking relieved, Hermione_Granger sprang to her feet. “where are you going?” asked Ronald_Weasley “if we’re staying, we should put some protective enchantments around the place,” she replied, and raising her wand, she began to walk in a wide circle around Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley murmuring incantations as she went. Harry_Potter saw little disturbances in the surrounding air: it was as if Hermione_Granger had cast a heat haze upon their clearing. “salvio hexia … protego totalum … repello muggletum … muffliato … you could get out the tent, Harry_Potter. …” “tent?” “in the bag!” “in the … of course,” said Harry_Potter. he did not bother to grope inside it this time, but used another summoning charm. the tent emerged in a lumpy mass of canvas, rope, and poles. Harry_Potter recognized it, partly because of the smell of cats, as the same tent in which they had slept on the night of the quidditch world cup. “i thought this belonged to that bloke Perkins at the ministry?” he asked, starting to disentangle the tent pegs. “apparently he didn’t want it back, his lumbago’s so bad,” said Hermione_Granger, now performing complicated figure-of-eight movements with her wand, “so ron’s dad said i could borrow it. erecto!” she added, pointing her wand at the misshapen canvas, which in one fluid motion Rose_Granger-Weasley into the air and settled, fully constructed, onto the ground before Harry_Potter, out of whose startled hands a tent peg soared, to land with a final thud at the end of a guy rope. “cave inimicum,” Hermione_Granger finished with a skyward flourish. “that’s as much as i can do. at the very least, we should know they’re coming, i can’t guarantee it will keep out vol —” “don’t say the name!” Ronald_Weasley cut across her, his voice harsh. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger looked at each other. “i’m sorry,” Ronald_Weasley said, moaning a little as he raised himself to look at them, “but it feels like a — a jinx or something. can’t we call him you- know-who — please?” “Albus_Dumbledore said fear of a name —” began Harry_Potter. “in case you hadn’t noticed, mate, calling Tom_Riddle by his name didn’t do Albus_Dumbledore much good in the end,” Ronald_Weasley snapped back. “just — just show Tom_Riddle some respect, will you?” “respect?” Harry_Potter repeated, but Hermione_Granger shot him a warning look; apparently he was not to argue with Ronald_Weasley while the latter was in such a weakened condition. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger half carried, half dragged Ronald_Weasley through the entrance of the tent. the interior was exactly as Harry_Potter remembered it: a small flat, complete with bathroom and tiny kitchen. he shoved aside an old armchair and lowered Ronald_Weasley carefully onto the lower berth of a bunk bed. even this very short journey had turned Ronald_Weasley whiter still, and once they had settled him on the mattress he closed his eyes again and did not speak for a while. “i’ll make some tea,” said Hermione_Granger breathlessly, pulling kettle and mugs from the depths of her bag and heading toward the kitchen. Harry_Potter found the hot drink as welcome as the firewhisky had been on the night that Alastor_Moody had died; it seemed to burn away a little of the fear fluttering in his chest. after a minute or two, Ronald_Weasley broke the silence. “what d’you reckon happened to the cattermoles?” “with any luck, they’ll have got away,” said Hermione_Granger, clutching her hot mug for comfort. “as long as mr. cattermole had his wits about him, he’ll have transported mrs. cattermole by side-along-apparition and they’ll be fleeing the country right now with their children. that’s what Harry_Potter told her to do.” “blimey, i Hope_Howell they escaped,” said Ronald_Weasley leaning back on his pillows. the tea seemed to be doing him good; a little of his color had returned. “i didn’t get the feeling Reginald_Cattermole cattermole was all that quick-witted, though, the way everyone was talking to me when i was him. god, i Hope_Howell they made it. … if they both end up in azkaban because of us …” Harry_Potter looked over at Hermione_Granger and the question he had been about to ask — about whether mrs. cattermole’s lack of a wand would prevent her apparating alongside her husband — died in his throat. Hermione_Granger was watching Ronald_Weasley fret over the fate of the cattermoles, and there was such tenderness in her expression that Harry_Potter felt almost as if he had surprised her in the act of kissing him. “so, have you got it?” Harry_Potter asked her, partly to remind her that he was there. “got — got what?” she said with a little start. “what did we just go through all that for? the locket! where’s the locket?” “you got it?” shouted Ronald_Weasley raising himself a little higher on his pillows. “no one tells me anything! blimey, you could have mentioned it!” “well, we were running for our lives from the death eaters, weren’t we?” said Hermione_Granger. “here.” and she pulled the locket out of the pocket of her robes and handed it to Ronald_Weasley it was as large as a chicken’s egg. an ornate letter s, inlaid with many small green stones, glinted dully in the diffused light shining through the tent’s canvas roof. “there isn’t any chance someone’s desTroyed it since Kreacher had it?” asked Ronald_Weasley Hope_Howellfully. “i mean, are we sure it’s still a horcrux?” “i think so,” said Hermione_Granger, taking it back from him and looking at it closely. “there’d be some sign of damage if it had been magically desTroyed.” she passed it to Harry_Potter, who turned it over in his fingers. the thing looked perfect, pristine. he remembered the mangled remains of the diary, and how the stone in the horcrux ring had been cracked open when Albus_Dumbledore desTroyed it. “i reckon Kreacher’s right,” said Harry_Potter. “we’re going to have to work out how to open this thing before we can desTroy it.” sudden awareness of what he was holding, of what lived behind the little golden doors, hit Harry_Potter as he spoke. even after all their efforts to find it, he felt a violent urge to fling the locket from him. mastering himself again, he tried to prise the locket apart with his fingers, then attempted the charm Hermione_Granger had used to open Regulus_Black’s bedroom door. neither worked. he handed the locket back to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, each of whom did their best, but were no more successful at opening it than he had been. “can you feel it, though?” Ronald_Weasley asked in a hushed voice, as he held it tight in his clenched fist. “what d’you mean?” Ronald_Weasley passed the horcrux to Harry_Potter. after a moment or two, Harry_Potter thought he knew what Ronald_Weasley meant. was it his own blood pulsing through his veins that he could feel, or was it something beating inside the locket, like a tiny metal heart? “what are we going to do with it?” Hermione_Granger asked. “keep it safe till we work out how to desTroy it,” Harry_Potter replied, and, little though he wanted to, he hung the chain around his own neck, dropping the locket out of sight beneath his robes, where it rested against his chest beside the pouch Rubeus_Hagrid had given him. “i think we should take it in turns to keep watch outside the tent,” he added to Hermione_Granger, standing up and stretching. “and we’ll need to think about some food as well. you stay there,” he added sharply, as Ronald_Weasley attempted to sit up and turned a nasty shade of green. with the sneakoscope Hermione_Granger had given Harry_Potter for his birthday set carefully upon the table in the tent, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger spent the rest of the day sharing the role of lookout. however, the sneakoscope remained silent and still upon its point all day, and whether because of the protective enchantments and muggle-repelling charms Hermione_Granger had spread around them, or because people rarely ventured this way, their patch of wood remained deserted, apart from occasional birds and squirrels. evening brought no change; Harry_Potter lit his wand as he swapped places with Hermione_Granger at ten o’clock, and looked out upon a deserted scene, noting the bats fluttering high above him across the single patch of starry sky visible from their protected clearing. he felt hungry now, and a little light-headed. Hermione_Granger had not packed any food in her magical bag, as she had assumed that they would be returning to grimmauld place that night, so they had had nothing to eat except some wild mushrooms that Hermione_Granger had collected from amongst the nearest trees and stewed in a billycan. after a couple of mouthfuls Ronald_Weasley had pushed his portion away, looking queasy; Harry_Potter had only persevered so as not to hurt Hermione_Granger’s feelings. the surrounding silence was broken by odd rustlings and what sounded like crackings of twigs: Harry_Potter thought that they were caused by animals rather than people, yet he kept his wand held tight at the ready. his insides, already uncomfortable due to their inadequate helping of rubbery mushrooms, tingled with unease. he had thought that he would feel elated if they managed to steal back the horcrux, but somehow he did not; all he felt as he sat looking out at the darkness, of which his wand lit only a tiny part, was worry about what would happen next. it was as though he had been hurtling toward this point for weeks, months, maybe even years, but now he had come to an abrupt halt, run out of road. there were other horcruxes out there somewhere, but he did not have the faintest idea where they could be. he did not even know what all of them were. meanwhile he was at a loss to know how to desTroy the only one that they had found, the horcrux that currently lay against the bare flesh of his chest. curiously, it had not taken heat from his body, but lay so cold against his skin it might just have emerged from icy water. from time to time Harry_Potter thought, or perhaps imagined, that he could feel the tiny heartbeat ticking irregularly alongside his own. nameless forebodings crept upon him as he sat there in the dark: he tried to resist them, push them away, yet they came at him relentlessly. neither can live while the other survives. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, now talking softly behind him in the tent, could walk away if they wanted to: he could not. and it seemed to Harry_Potter as he sat there trying to master his own fear and exhaustion, that the horcrux against his chest was ticking away the time he had left. … stupid idea, he told himself, don’t think that. … his scar was starting to prickle again. he was afraid that he was making it happen by having these thoughts, and tried to direct them into another channel. he thought of poor Kreacher, who had expected them home and had received Corban_Yaxley instead. would the Winky keep silent or would he tell the death eater everything he knew? Harry_Potter wanted to believe that Kreacher had changed toward him in the past month, that he would be loyal now, but who knew what would happen? what if the death eaters tortured the elf? sick images swarmed into Harry_Potter’s head and he tried to push these away too, for there was nothing he could do for Kreacher: he and Hermione_Granger had already decided against trying to summon him; what if someone from the ministry came too? they could not count on elfish apparition being free from the same flaw that had taken Corban_Yaxley to grimmauld place on the hem of Hermione_Granger’s sleeve. Harry_Potter’s scar was burning now. he thought that there was so much they did not know: lupin had been right about magic they had never encountered or imagined. why hadn’t Albus_Dumbledore explained more? had he thought that there would be time; that he would live for years, for centuries perhaps, like his friend nicolas flamel? if so, he had been wrong. … snape had seen to that. … snape, the sleeping snake, who had struck at the top of the tower … and Albus_Dumbledore had fallen … fallen … “give it to me, Mykew_Gregorowitch.” Harry_Potter’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held in front of him by a long-fingered white hand. the man at whom he was pointing was suspended upside down in midair, though there were no ropes holding him; he swung there, invisibly and eerily bound, his limbs wrapped about him, his terrified face, on a level with Harry_Potter’s, ruddy due to the blood that had rushed to his head. he had pure-white hair and a thick, bushy beard: a trussed-up father christmas. “i have it not, i have it no more! it was, many years ago, stolen from me!” “do not lie to Tom_Riddle, Mykew_Gregorowitch. he knows. … he always knows.” the hanging man’s pupils were wide, dilated with fear, and they seemed to swell, bigger and bigger until their blackness swallowed Harry_Potter whole — and now Harry_Potter was hurrying along a dark corridor in stout little Mykew_Gregorowitch’s wake as he held a lantern aloft: Mykew_Gregorowitch burst into the room at the end of the passage and his lantern illuminated what looked like a workshop; wood shavings and gold gleamed in the swinging pool of light, and there on the window ledge sat perched, like a giant bird, a young man with golden hair. in the split second that the lantern’s light illuminated him, Harry_Potter saw the delight upon his handsome face, then the intruder shot a stunning spell from his wand and jumped neatly backward out of the window with a crow of laughter. and Harry_Potter was hurtling back out of those wide, tunnellike pupils and Mykew_Gregorowitch’s face was stricken with terror. “who was the thief, Mykew_Gregorowitch?” said the high cold voice. “i do not know, i never knew, a young man — no — please — please!” a scream that went on and on and then a burst of green light — “Harry_Potter!” he opened his eyes, panting, his forehead throbbing. he had passed out against the side of the tent, had slid sideways down the canvas, and was sprawled on the ground. he looked up at Hermione_Granger, whose bushy hair obscured the tiny patch of sky visible through the dark branches high above them. “dream,” he said, sitting up quickly and attempting to meet Hermione_Granger’s glower with a look of innocence. “must’ve dozed off, sorry.” “i know it was your scar! i can tell by the look on your face! you were looking into vol —” “don’t say his name!” came ron’s angry voice from the depths of the tent. “fine,” retorted Hermione_Granger. “Tom_Riddle’s mind, then!” “i didn’t mean it to happen!” Harry_Potter said. “it was a dream! can you control what you dream about, Hermione_Granger?” “if you just learned to apply occlumency —” but Harry_Potter was not interested in being told off; he wanted to discuss what he had just seen. “he’s found Mykew_Gregorowitch, Hermione_Granger, and i think he’s killed him, but before he killed him he read Mykew_Gregorowitch’s mind and i saw —” “i think i’d better take over the watch if you’re so tired you’re falling asleep,” said Hermione_Granger coldly. “i can finish the watch!” “no, you’re obviously exhausted. go and lie down.” she dropped down in the mouth of the tent, looking stubborn. angry, but wishing to avoid a row, Harry_Potter ducked back inside. ron’s still-pale face was poking out from the lower bunk; Harry_Potter climbed into the one above him, lay down, and looked up at the dark canvas ceiling. after several moments, Ronald_Weasley spoke in a voice so low that it would not carry to Hermione_Granger, huddled in the entrance. “what’s Tom_Riddle doing?” Harry_Potter screwed up his eyes in the effort to remember every detail, then whispered into the darkness. “he found Mykew_Gregorowitch. he had him tied up, he was torturing him.” “how’s Mykew_Gregorowitch supposed to make him a new wand if he’s tied up?” “i dunno. … it’s weird, isn’t it?” Harry_Potter closed his eyes, thinking of all he had seen and heard. the more he recalled, the less sense it made. … voldemort had said nothing about Harry_Potter’s wand, nothing about the twin cores, nothing about Mykew_Gregorowitch making a new and more powerful wand to beat Harry_Potter’s. … “he wanted something from Mykew_Gregorowitch,” Harry_Potter said, eyes still closed tight. “he asked him to hand it over, but Mykew_Gregorowitch said it had been stolen from him … and then … then …” he remembered how he, as voldemort, had seemed to hurtle through Mykew_Gregorowitch’s eyes, into his memories. … “he read Mykew_Gregorowitch’s mind, and i saw this young bloke perched on a windowsill, and he fired a curse at Mykew_Gregorowitch and jumped out of sight. he stole it, he stole whatever Tom_Riddle’s after. and i … i think i’ve seen him somewhere. …” Harry_Potter wished he could have another glimpse of the laughing boy’s face. the theft had happened many years ago, according to Mykew_Gregorowitch. why did the young thief look familiar? the noises of the surrounding woods were muffled inside the tent; all Harry_Potter could hear was ron’s breathing. after a while, Ronald_Weasley whispered, “couldn’t you see what the thief was holding?” “no … it must’ve been something small.” “Harry_Potter?” the wooden slats of ron’s bunk creaked as he repositioned himself in bed. “Harry_Potter, you don’t reckon Tom_Riddle’s after something else to turn into a horcrux?” “i don’t know,” said Harry_Potter slowly. “maybe. but wouldn’t it be dangerous for him to make another one? didn’t Hermione_Granger say he had pushed his soul to the limit already?” “yeah, but maybe he doesn’t know that.” “yeah … maybe,” said Harry_Potter. he had been sure that voldemort had been looking for a way around the problem of the twin cores, sure that voldemort sought a solution from the old wandmaker … and yet he had killed him, apparently without asking him a single question about wandlore. what was voldemort trying to find? why, with the ministry of magic and the wizarding world at his feet, was he far away, intent on the pursuit of an object that Mykew_Gregorowitch had once owned, and which had been stolen by the unknown thief? Harry_Potter could still see the blond-haired youth’s face; it was merry, wild; there was a Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley-ish air of triumphant trickery about him. he had soared from the windowsill like a bird, and Harry_Potter had seen him before, but he could not think where. … with Mykew_Gregorowitch dead, it was the merry-faced thief who was in danger now, and it was on him that Harry_Potter’s thoughts dwelled, as ron’s snores began to rumble from the lower bunk and as he himself drifted slowly into sleep once more. 