chapter 21 the tale of the three brothers Harry_Potter turned to look atRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. neither of them seemed to have understood what Xenophilius_Lovegood had said either. “the deathly hallows?” “that’s right,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “you haven’t heard of them? i’m not surprised. very, very few wizards believe. witness that knuckle-headed young man at your brother’s wedding,” he nodded at ron, “who attacked me for sporting the symbol of a well-known dark wizard! such ignorance. there is nothing dark about the hallows — at least, not in that crude sense. one simply uses the symbol to reveal oneself to other believers, in the Hope_Howell that they might help one with the quest.” he stirred several lumps of sugar into his gurdyroot infusion and drank some. “i’m sorry,” said Harry_Potter. “i still don’t really underStanley_Shunpiked.” to be polite, he took a sip from his cup too, and almost gagged: the stuff was quite disgusting, as though someone had liquidized bogey-flavored every flavor beans. “well, you see, believers seek the deathly hallows,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, smacking his lips in apparent appreciation of the gurdyroot infusion. “but what are the deathly hallows?” asked Hermione_Granger. Xenophilius_Lovegood set aside his empty teacup. “i assume that you are all familiar with “the tale of the three brothers’?” Harry_Potter said, “no,” butRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger both said, “yes.” Xenophilius_Lovegood nodded gravely. “well, well, mr. potter, the whole thing starts with ‘the tale of the three brothers’ … i have a copy somewhere. …” he glanced vaguely around the room, at the piles of parchment and books, but Hermione_Granger said, “i’ve got a copy, mr. lovegood, i’ve got it right here.” and she pulled out the tales of beedle the bard from the small, beaded bag. “the original?” inquired Xenophilius_Lovegood sharply, and when she nodded, he said, “well then, why don’t you read it aloud? much the best way to make sure we all underStanley_Shunpiked.” “er … all right,” said Hermione_Granger nervously. she opened the book, and Harry_Potter saw that the symbol they were investigating headed the top of the page as she gave a little cough, and began to read. “ ‘there were once three brothers who were traveling along a lonely, winding road at twilight —’ ” “midnight, our mum always told us,” said ron, who had stretched out, arms behind his head, to listen. Hermione_Granger shot him a look of annoyance. “sorry, i just think it’s a bit spookier if it’s midnight!” said ron. “yeah, because we really need a bit more fear in our lives,” said Harry_Potter before he could stop himself. Xenophilius_Lovegood did not seem to be paying much attention, but was staring out of the window at the sky. “go on, Hermione_Granger.” “ ‘in time, the brothers reached a river too deep to wade through and too dangerous to swim across. however, these brothers were learned in the Magic_goblinal arts, and so they simply waved their wands and made a bridge appear across the treacherous water. they were halfway across it when they found their path blocked by a hooded figure. “ ‘and death spoke to them —’ ” “sorry,” interjected Harry_Potter, “but death spoke to them?” “it’s a fairy tale, Harry_Potter!” “right, sorry. go on.” “ ‘and death spoke to them. he was angry that he had been cheated out of three new victims, for travelers usually drowned in the river. but death was cunning. he pretended to congratulate the three brothers upon their Magic_goblin, and said that each had earned a prize for having been Clever_goblin enough to evade him. “ ‘so the oldest brother, who was a combative man, asked for a wand more powerful than any in existence: a wand that must always win duels for its owner, a wand worthy of a wizard who had conquered death! so death crossed to an elder tree on the banks of the river, fashioned a wand from a branch that hung there, and gave it to the oldest brother. “ ‘then the Cadmus_Peverell, who was an arrogant man, decided that he wanted to humiliate death still further, and asked for the power to recall others from death. so death picked up a stone from the riverbank and gave it to the Cadmus_Peverell, and told him that the stone would have the power to bring back the dead. “ ‘and then death asked the third and youngest brother what he would like. the youngest brother was the humblest and also the wisest of the brothers, and he did not trust death. so he asked for something that would enable him to go forth from that place without being followed by death. and death, most unwillingly, handed over his own cloak of invisibility.’ ” “death’s got an invisibility cloak?” Harry_Potter interrupted again. “so he can sneak up on people,” said ron. “sometimes he gets bored of running at them, flapping his arms and shrieking … sorry, Hermione_Granger.” “ ‘then death stood aside and allowed the three brothers to continue on their way, and they did so, talking with wonder of the adventure they had had, and admiring death’s gifts. “ ‘in due course the brothers separated, each for his own destination. “ ‘the Antioch_Peverell traveled on for a week or more, and reaching a diStanley_Shunpiket village, sought out a fellow wizard with whom he had a quarrel. naturally, with the elder wand as his weapon, he could not fail to win the duel that followed. leaving his enemy dead upon the floor, the oldest brother proceeded to an inn, where he boasted loudly of the powerful wand he had snatched from death himself, and of how it made him invincible. “ ‘that very night, another wizard crept upon the oldest brother as he lay, wine-sodden, upon his bed. the thief took the wand and, for good measure, slit the oldest brother’s throat. “ ‘and so death took the Antioch_Peverell for his own. “ ‘meanwhile, the Cadmus_Peverell journeyed to his own home, where he lived alone. here he took out the stone that had the power to recall the dead, and turned it thrice in his hand. to his amazement and his delight, the figure of the girl he had once Hope_Howelld to marry, before her untimely death, appeared at once before him. “ ‘yet she was sad and cold, separated from him as by a veil. though she had returned to the mortal world, she did not truly belong there and suffered. finally the Cadmus_Peverell, driven mad with Hope_Howellless longing, killed himself so as truly to join her. “ ‘and so death took the Cadmus_Peverell for his own. “ ‘but though death searched for the third brother for many years, he was never able to find him. it was only when he had attained a great age that the youngest brother finally took off the cloak of invisibility and gave it to his son. and then he greeted death as an old friend, and went with him gladly, and, equals, they departed this life.’ ” Hermione_Granger closed the book. it was a moment or two before Xenophilius_Lovegood seemed to realize that she had stopped reading, then he withdrew his gaze from the window and said, “well, there you are.” “sorry?” said Hermione_Granger, sounding confused. “those are the deathly hallows,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. he picked up a quill from a packed table at his elbow, and pulled a torn piece of parchment from between more books. “the elder wand,” he said, and he drew a straight vertical line upon the parchment. “the resurrection stone,” he said, and he added a circle on top of the line. “the cloak of invisibility,” he finished, enclosing both line and circle in a triangle, to make the symbol that so intrigued Hermione_Granger. “together,” he said, “the deathly hallows.” “but there’s no mention of the words ‘deathly hallows’ in the story,” said Hermione_Granger. “well, of course not,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, maddeningly smug. “that is a children’s tale, told to amuse rather than to instruct. those of us who underStanley_Shunpiked these matters, however, recognize that the ancient story refers to three objects, or hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master of death.” there was a short silence in which Xenophilius_Lovegood glanced out of the window. already the sun was low in the sky. “Luna_Lovegood ought to have enough plimpies soon,” he said quietly. “when you say ‘master of death’ —” said ron. “master,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, waving an airy hand. “conqueror. vanquisher. whichever term you prefer.” “but then … do you mean …” said Hermione_Granger slowly, and Harry_Potter could tell that she was trying to keep any trace of skepticism out of her voice, “that you believe these objects — these hallows — actually exist?” Xenophilius_Lovegood raised his eyebrows again. “well, of course.” “but,” said Hermione_Granger, and Harry_Potter could hear her restraint starting to crack, “mr. lovegood, how can you possibly believe — ?” “Luna_Lovegood has told me all about you, young lady,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “you are, i gather, not unintelligent, but painfully limited. narrow. close- minded.” “perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione_Granger,” said ron, nodding toward the ludicrous headdress. his voice shook with the strain of not laughing. “mr. lovegood,” Hermione_Granger began again. “we all know that there are such things as invisibility cloaks. they are rare, but they exist. but —” “ah, but the third hallow is a true cloak of invisibility, miss granger! i mean to say, it is not a traveling cloak imbued with a disillusionment charm, or carrying a bedazzling hex, or else woven from demiguise hair, which will hide one initially but fade with the years until it turns opaque. we are talking about a cloak that really and truly renders the wearer completely invisible, and endures eternally, giving conStanley_Shunpiket and impenetrable concealment, no matter what spells are cast at it. how many cloaks have you ever seen like that, miss granger?” Hermione_Granger opened her mouth to answer, then closed it again, looking more confused than ever. she, Harry_Potter, andRonald_Weasleyglanced at one another, and Harry_Potter knew that they were all thinking the same thing. it so happened that a cloak exactly like the one Xenophilius_Lovegood had just described was in the room with them at that very moment. “exactly,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, as if he had defeated them all in reasoned argument. “none of you have ever seen such a thing. the possessor would be immeasurably rich, would he not?” he glanced out of the window again. the sky was now tinged with the faintest trace of pink. “all right,” said Hermione_Granger, disconcerted. “say the cloak existed … what about the stone, mr. lovegood? the thing you call the resurrection stone?” “what of it?” “well, how can that be real?” “prove that it is not,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. Hermione_Granger looked outraged. “but that’s — i’m sorry, but that’s completely ridiculous! how can i possibly prove it doesn’t exist? do you expect me to get hold of — of all the pebbles in the world and test them? i mean, you could claim that anything’s real if the only basis for believing in it is that nobody’s proved it doesn’t exist!” “yes, you could,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “i am glad to see that you are opening your mind a little.” “so the elder wand,” said Harry_Potter quickly, before Hermione_Granger could retort, “you think that exists too?” “oh, well, in that case there is endless evidence,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “the elder wand is the hallow that is most easily traced, because of the way in which it passes from hand to hand.” “which is what?” asked Harry_Potter. “which is that the possessor of the wand must capture it from its previous owner, if he is to be truly master of it,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “surely you have heard of the way the wand came to egbert the egregious, after his slaughter of emEric_Munch the evil? of how godelot died in his own cellar after his son, hereward, took the wand from him? of the dreadful loxias, who took the wand from barnabas deverill, whom he had killed? the Bloody_Baron trail of the elder wand is splattered across the pages of wizarding history.” Harry_Potter glanced at Hermione_Granger. she was frowning at Xenophilius_Lovegood, but she did not contradict him. “so where do you think the elder wand is now?” asked ron. “alas, who knows?” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, as he gazed out of the window. “who knows where the elder wand lies hidden? the trail goes cold with arcus and livius. who can say which of them really defeated loxias, and which took the wand? and who can say who may have defeated them? history, alas, does not tell us.” there was a pause. finally Hermione_Granger asked stiffly, “mr. lovegood, does the peverell family have anything to do with the deathly hallows?” Xenophilius_Lovegood looked taken aback as something shifted in Harry_Potter’s memory, but he could not locate it. peverell … he had heard that name before. … “but you have been misleading me, young woman!” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, now sitting up much straighter in his chair and goggling at Hermione_Granger. “i thought you were new to the hallows quest! many of us questers believe that the peverells have everything — everything! — to do with the hallows!” “who are the peverells?” asked ron. “that was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in godric’s hollow,” said Hermione_Granger, still watching Xenophilius_Lovegood. “ignotus peverell.” “exactly!” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, his forefinger raised pedantically. “the sign of the deathly hallows on ignotus’s grave is conclusive proof!” “of what?” asked ron. “why, that the three brothers in the story were actually the three peverell brothers, Antioch_Peverell, Cadmus_Peverell, and ignotus! that they were the original owners of the hallows!” with another glance at the window he got to his feet, picked up the tray, and headed for the spiral staircase. “you will stay for dinner?” he called, as he vanished downstairs again. “everybody always requests our recipe for freshwater plimpy soup.” “probably to show the poisoning department at st. mungo’s,” saidRonald_Weasleyunder his breath. Harry_Potter waited until they could hear Xenophilius_Lovegood moving about in the kitchen downstairs before speaking. “what do you think?” he asked Hermione_Granger. “oh, Harry_Potter,” she said wearily, “it’s a pile of utter rubbish. this can’t be what the sign really means. this must just be his weird take on it. what a waste of time.” “i s’pose this is the man who brought us crumple-horned snorkacks,” said ron. “you don’t believe it either?” Harry_Potter asked him. “nah, that story’s just one of those things you tell kids to teach them lessons, isn’t it? ‘don’t go looking for trouble, don’t pick fights, don’t go messing around with stuff that’s best left alone! just keep your head down, mind your own business, and you’ll be okay’ come to think of it,”Ronald_Weasleyadded, “maybe that story’s why elder wands are supposed to be unlucky.” “what are you talking about?” “one of those superstitions, isn’t it? ‘may-born witches will marry muggles.’ ‘jinx by twilight, undone by midnight.’ ‘wand of elder, never prosper.’ you must’ve heard them. my mum’s full of them.” “Harry_Potter and i were raised by muggles,” Hermione_Granger reminded him. “we were taught different superstitions.” she sighed deeply as a rather pungent smell drifted up from the kitchen. the one good thing about her exasperation with Xenophilius_Lovegood was that it seemed to have made her forget that she was annoyed at ron. “i think you’re right,” she told him. “it’s just a morality tale, it’s obvious which gift is best, which one you’d choose —” the three of them spoke at the same time; Hermione_Granger said, “the cloak,”Ronald_Weasleysaid, “the wand,” and Harry_Potter said, “the stone.” they looked at each other, half surprised, half amused. “you’re supposed to say the cloak,”Ronald_Weasleytold Hermione_Granger, “but you wouldn’t need to be invisible if you had the wand. an unbeatable wand, Hermione_Granger, come on!” “we’ve already got an invisibility cloak,” said Harry_Potter. “and it’s helped us rather a lot, in case you hadn’t noticed!” said Hermione_Granger. “whereas the wand would be bound to attract trouble —” “only if you shouted about it,” argued ron. “only if you were prat enough to go dancing around, waving it over your head, and singing, ‘i’ve got an unbeatable wand, come and have a go if you think you’re hard enough.’ as long as you kept your trap shut —” “yes, but could you keep your trap shut?” said Hermione_Granger, looking skeptical. “you know, the only true thing he said to us was that there have been stories about extra-powerful wands for hundreds of years.” “there have?” asked Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger looked exasperated: the expression was so endearingly familiar that Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleygrinned at each other. “the deathstick, the wand of destiny, they crop up under different names through the centuries, usually in the possession of some dark wizard who’s boasting about them. professor binns mentioned some of them, but — oh, it’s all nonsense. wands are only as powerful as the wizards who use them. some wizards just like to boast that theirs are bigger and better than other people’s.” “but how do you know,” said Harry_Potter, “that those wands — the deathstick and the wand of destiny — aren’t the same wand, surfacing over the centuries under different names?” “what, and they’re all really the elder wand, made by death?” said ron. Harry_Potter laughed: the strange idea that had occurred to him was, after all, ridiculous. his wand, he reminded himself, had been of holly, not elder, and it had been made by ollIvan_Volkovder, whatever it had done that night voldemort had pursued him across the skies. and if it had been unbeatable, how could it have been broken? “so why would you take the stone?”Ronald_Weasleyasked him. “well, if you could bring people back, we could have Sirius_Black … Alastor_Moody … Albus_Dumbledore … my parents. …” neitherRonald_Weasleynor Hermione_Granger smiled. “but according to beedle the bard, they wouldn’t want to come back, would they?” said Harry_Potter, thinking about the tale they had just heard. “i don’t suppose there have been loads of other stories about a stone that can raise the dead, have there?” he asked Hermione_Granger. “no,” she replied sadly. “i don’t think anyone except mr. lovegood could kid themselves that’s possible. beedle probably took the idea from the sorcerer’s stone; you know, instead of a stone to make you immortal, a stone to reverse death.” the smell from the kitchen was getting stronger: it was something like burning underpants. Harry_Potter wondered whether it would be possible to eat enough of whatever Xenophilius_Lovegood was Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning to spare his feelings. “what about the cloak, though?” saidRonald_Weasleyslowly. “don’t you realize, he’s right? i’ve got so used to Harry_Potter’s cloak and how good it is, i never stopped to think. i’ve never heard of one like Harry_Potter’s. it’s infallible. we’ve never been spotted under it —” “of course not — we’re invisible when we’re under it, ron!” “but all the stuff he said about other cloaks, and they’re not exactly ten a knut, you know, is true! it’s never occurred to me before, but i’ve heard stuff about charms wearing off cloaks when they get old, or them being ripped apart by spells so they’ve got holes in. Harry_Potter’s was owned by his dad, so it’s not exactly new, is it, but it’s just … perfect!” “yes, all right, but ron, the stone …” as they argued in whispers, Harry_Potter moved around the room, only half listening. reaching the spiral stair, he raised his eyes absently to the next level and was distracted at once. his own face was looking back at him from the ceiling of the room above. after a moment’s bewilderment, he realized that it was not a mirror, but a painting. curious, he began to climb the stairs. “Harry_Potter, what are you doing? i don’t think you should look around when he’s not here!” but Harry_Potter had already reached the next level. Luna_Lovegood had decorated her bedroom ceiling with five beautifully painted faces: Harry_Potter, ron, Hermione_Granger, Ginevra_Weasley, and Neville_Longbottom. they were not moving as the portraits at hogwarts moved, but there was a certain Magic_goblin about them all the same: Harry_Potter thought they breathed. what appeared to be fine golden chains wove around the pictures, linking them together, but after examining them for a minute or so, Harry_Potter realized that the chains were actually one word, repeated a thousand times in golden ink: friends … friends … friends … Harry_Potter felt a great rush of affection for Luna_Lovegood. he looked around the room. there was a large photograph beside the bed, of a young Luna_Lovegood and a woman who looked very like her. they were hugging. Luna_Lovegood looked rather better- groomed in this picture than Harry_Potter had ever seen her in life. the picture was dusty. this struck Harry_Potter as slightly odd. he stared around. something was wrong. the pale blue carpet was also thick with dust. there were no clothes in the wardrobe, whose doors stood ajar. the bed had a cold, unfriendly look, as though it had not been slept in for weeks. a single cobweb stretched over the nearest window, across a bloodred sky. “what’s wrong?” Hermione_Granger asked as Harry_Potter descended the staircase, but before he could respond, Xenophilius_Lovegood reached the top of the stairs from the kitchen, now holding a tray laden with bowls. “mr. lovegood,” said Harry_Potter. “where’s Luna_Lovegood?” “excuse me?” “where’s Luna_Lovegood?” Xenophilius_Lovegood halted on the top step. “i — i’ve already told you. she is down at bottom bridge, fishing for plimpies.” “so why have you only laid that tray for four?” Xenophilius_Lovegood tried to speak, but no sound came out. the only noise was the continued chugging of the printing press, and a slight rattle from the tray as Xenophilius_Lovegood’s hands shook. “i don’t think Luna_Lovegood’s been here for weeks,” said Harry_Potter. “her clothes are gone, her bed hasn’t been slept in. where is she? and why do you keep looking out of the window?” Xenophilius_Lovegood dropped the tray: the bowls bounced and smashed. Harry_Potter, ron, and Hermione_Granger drew their wands: Xenophilius_Lovegood froze, his hand about to enter his pocket. at that moment the printing press gave a huge bang and numerous quibblers came streaming across the floor from underneath the tablecloth; the press fell silent at last. Hermione_Granger stooped down and picked up one of the magazines, her wand still pointing at mr. lovegood. “Harry_Potter, look at this.” he strode over to her as quickly as he could through all the clutter. the front of the quibbler carried his own picture, emblazoned with the words undesirable number one and captioned with the reward money. “the quibbler’s going for a new angle, then?” Harry_Potter asked coldly, his mind working very fast. “is that what you were doing when you went into the garden, mr. lovegood? sending an owl to the ministry?” Xenophilius_Lovegood licked his lips. “they took my Luna_Lovegood,” he whispered. “because of what i’ve been writing. they took my Luna_Lovegood and i don’t know where she is, what they’ve done to her. but they might give her back to me if i — if i —” “hand over Harry_Potter?” Hermione_Granger finished for him. “no deal,” saidRonald_Weasleyflatly. “get out of the way, we’re leaving.” Xenophilius_Lovegood looked ghastly, a century old, his lips drawn back into a dreadful leer. “they will be here at any moment. i must save Luna_Lovegood. i cannot lose Luna_Lovegood. you must not leave.” he spread his arms in front of the staircase, and Harry_Potter had a sudden vision of his mother doing the same thing in front of his crib. “don’t make us hurt you,” Harry_Potter said. “get out of the way, mr. lovegood.” “Harry_Potter!” Hermione_Granger screamed. figures on broomsticks were flying past the windows. as the three of them looked away from him, Xenophilius_Lovegood drew his wand. Harry_Potter realized their mistake just in time: he launched himself sideways, shovingRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger out of harm’s way as Xenophilius_Lovegood’s stunning spell soared across the room and hit the erumpent horn. there was a colossal explosion. the sound of it seemed to blow the room apart: fragments of wood and paper and rubble flew in all directions, along with an impenetrable cloud of thick white dust. Harry_Potter flew through the air, then crashed to the floor, unable to see as debris rained upon him, his arms over his head. he heard Hermione_Granger’s scream, ron’s yell, and a series of sickening meTall_goblinic thuds, which told him that Xenophilius_Lovegood had been blasted off his feet and fallen backward down the spiral stairs. half buried in rubble, Harry_Potter tried to raise himself: he could barely breathe or see for dust. half of the ceiling had fallen in, and the end of Luna_Lovegood’s bed was hanging through the hole. the bust of ROwen_Cauldwella_Ravenclaw ravenclaw lay beside him with half its face missing, fragments of torn parchment were floating through the air, and most of the printing press lay on its side, blocking the top of the staircase to the kitchen. then another white shape moved close by, and Hermione_Granger, coated in dust like a second statue, pressed her finger to her lips. the door downstairs crashed open. “didn’t i tell you there was no need to hurry, Travers?” said a rough voice. “didn’t i tell you this nutter was just raving as usual?” there was a bang and a scream of pain from Xenophilius_Lovegood. “no … no … upstairs … potter!” “i told you last week, lovegood, we weren’t coming back for anything less than some solid information! remember last week? when you wanted to swap your daughter for that stupid bleeding headdress? and the week before” — another bang, another squeal — “when you thought we’d give her back if you offered us proof there are crumple” — bang — “headed” — bang — “snorkacks?” “no — no — i beg you!” sobbed Xenophilius_Lovegood. “it really is potter! really!” “and now it turns out you only called us here to try and blow us up!” roared the death eater, and there was a volley of bangs interspersed with squeals of agony from Xenophilius_Lovegood. “the place looks like it’s about to fall in, Selwyn,” said a cool second voice, echoing up the mangled staircase. “the stairs are completely blocked. could try clearing it? might bring the place down.” “you lying piece of filth,” shouted the wizard named Selwyn. “you’ve never seen potter in your life, have you? thought you’d lure us here to kill us, did you? and you think you’ll get your girl back like this?” “i swear … i swear … potter’s upstairs!” “homenum revelio,” said the voice at the foot of the stairs. Harry_Potter heard Hermione_Granger gasp, and he had the odd sensation that something was swooping low over him, immersing his body in its shadow. “there’s someone up there all right, Selwyn,” said the second man sharply. “it’s potter, i tell you, it’s potter!” sobbed Xenophilius_Lovegood. “please … please … give me Luna_Lovegood, just let me have Luna_Lovegood. …” “you can have your little girl, lovegood,” said Selwyn, “if you get up those stairs and bring me down Harry_Potter potter. but if this is a plot, if it’s a trick, if you’ve got an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we’ll see if we can spare a bit of your daughter for you to bury.” Xenophilius_Lovegood gave a wail of fear and despair. there were scurryings and scrapings: Xenophilius_Lovegood was trying to get through the debris on the stairs. “come on,” Harry_Potter whispered, “we’ve got to get out of here.” he started to dig himself out under cover of all the noise Xenophilius_Lovegood was making on the staircase.Ronald_Weasleywas buried deepest: Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger climbed, as quietly as they could, over all the wreckage to where he lay, trying to prise a heavy chest of drawers off his legs. while Xenophilius_Lovegood’s banging and scraping drew nearer and nearer, Hermione_Granger managed to freeRonald_Weasleywith the use of a hover charm. “all right,” breathed Hermione_Granger, as the broken printing press blocking the top of the stairs began to tremble; Xenophilius_Lovegood was feet away from them. she was still white with dust. “do you trust me, Harry_Potter?” Harry_Potter nodded. “okay then,” Hermione_Granger whispered, “give me the invisibility cloak. ron, you’re going to put it on.” “me? but Harry_Potter —” “please, ron! Harry_Potter, hold on tight to my hand, ron, grab my shoulder.” Harry_Potter held out his left hand.Ronald_Weasleyvanished beneath the cloak. the printing press blocking the stairs was vibrating: Xenophilius_Lovegood was trying to shift it using a hover charm. Harry_Potter did not know what Hermione_Granger was waiting for. “hold tight,” she whispered. “hold tight … any second …” Xenophilius_Lovegood’s paper-white face appeared over the top of the sideboard. “obliviate!” cried Hermione_Granger, pointing her wand first into his face, then at the floor beneath them. “deprimo!” she had blasted a hole in the sitting room floor. they fell like boulders, Harry_Potter still holding onto her hand for dear life; there was a scream from below, and he glimpsed two men trying to get out of the way as vast quantities of rubble and broken furniture rained all around them from the shattered ceiling. Hermione_Granger twisted in midair and the thundering of the collapsing house rang in Harry_Potter’s ears as she dragged him once more into darkness. 