chapter 20 Xenophilius_Lovegood Harry_Potter had not expected Hermione_Granger’s anger to abate over-night, and was therefore unsurprised that she communicated mainly by dirty looks and pointed silences the next morning. Ronald_Weasley responded by maintaining an unnaturally somber demeanor in her presence as an outward sign of continuing remorse. in fact, when all three of them were together Harry_Potter felt like the only non-mourner at a poorly attended funeral. during those few moments he spent alone with Harry_Potter, however (collecting water and searching the undergrowth for mushrooms), Ronald_Weasley became shamelessly cheery. “someone helped us,” he kept saying. “someone sent that doe. someone’s on our side. one horcrux down, mate!” bolstered by the destruction of the locket, they set to debating the possible locations of the other horcruxes, and even though they had discussed the matter so often before, Harry_Potter felt optimistic, certain that more breakthroughs would succeed the first. Hermione_Granger’s sulkiness could not mar his buoyant spirits: the sudden upswing in their fortunes, the appearance of the mysterious doe, the recovery of gryffindor’s sword, and above all, ron’s return, made Harry_Potter so happy that it was quite difficult to maintain a straight face. late in the afternoon he and Ronald_Weasley escaped Hermione_Granger’s baleful presence again, and under the pretense of scouring the bare hedges for nonexistent blackberries, they continued their ongoing exchange of news. Harry_Potter had finally managed to tell Ronald_Weasley the whole story of his and Hermione_Granger’s various wanderings, right up to the full story of what had happened at godric’s hollow; Ronald_Weasley was now filling Harry_Potter in on everything he had discovered about the wider wizarding world during his weeks away. “… and how did you find out about the taboo?” he asked Harry_Potter after explaining the many desperate attempts of muggle-borns to evade the ministry. “the what?” “you and Hermione_Granger have stopped saying Tom_Riddle’s name!” “oh, yeah. well, it’s just a bad habit we’ve slipped into,” said Harry_Potter. “but i haven’t got a problem calling him v —” “no!” roared Ronald_Weasley causing Harry_Potter to jump into the hedge and Hermione_Granger (nose buried in a book at the tent entrance) to scowl over at them. “sorry,” said Ronald_Weasley wrenching Harry_Potter back out of the brambles, “but the name’s been jinxed, Harry_Potter, that’s how they track people! using his name breaks protective enchantments, it causes some kind of magical disturbance — it’s how they found us in tottenham court road!” “because we used his name?” “exactly! you’ve got to give them credit, it makes sense. it was only people who were serious about standing up to him, like Albus_Dumbledore, who ever dared use it. now they’ve put a taboo on it, anyone who says it is trackable — quick-and-easy way to find order members! they nearly got Kingsley_Shacklebolt —” “you’re kidding?” “yeah, a bunch of death eaters cornered him, William_Weasley said, but he fought his way out. he’s on the run now, just like us.” Ronald_Weasley scratched his chin thoughtfully with the end of his wand. “you don’t reckon Kingsley_Shacklebolt could have sent that doe?” “his patronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wedding, remember?” “oh yeah …” they moved farther along the hedge, away from the tent and Hermione_Granger. “Harry_Potter … you don’t reckon it could’ve been Albus_Dumbledore?” “Albus_Dumbledore what?” Ronald_Weasley looked a little embarrassed, but said in a low voice, “Albus_Dumbledore … the doe? i mean,” Ronald_Weasley was watching Harry_Potter out of the corners of his eyes, “he had the real sword last, didn’t he?” Harry_Potter did not laugh at Ronald_Weasley because he understood too well the longing behind the question. the idea that Albus_Dumbledore had managed to come back to them, that he was watching over them, would have been inexpressibly comforting. he shook his head. “Albus_Dumbledore’s dead,” he said. “i saw it happen, i saw the body. he’s definitely gone. anyway, his patronus was a phoenix, not a doe.” “patronuses can change, though, can’t they?” said Ronald_Weasley “tonks’s changed, didn’t it?” “yeah, but if Albus_Dumbledore was alive, why wouldn’t he show himself? why wouldn’t he just hand us the sword?” “search me,” said Ronald_Weasley “same reason he didn’t give it to you while he was alive? same reason he left you an old snitch and Hermione_Granger a book of kids’ stories?” “which is what?” asked Harry_Potter, turning to look Ronald_Weasley full in the face, desperate for the answer. “i dunno,” said Ronald_Weasley “sometimes i’ve thought, when i’ve been a bit hacked off, he was having a laugh or — or he just wanted to make it more difficult. but i don’t think so, not anymore. he knew what he was doing when he gave me the deluminator, didn’t he? he — well,” ron’s ears turned bright red and he became engrossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he prodded with his toe, “he must’ve known i’d run out on you.” “no,” Harry_Potter corrected him. “he must’ve known you’d always want to come back.” Ronald_Weasley looked grateful, but still awkward. partly to change the subject, Harry_Potter said, “speaking of Albus_Dumbledore, have you heard what skeeter wrote about him?” “oh yeah,” said Ronald_Weasley at once, “people are talking about it quite a lot. ’course, if things were different, it’d be huge news, Albus_Dumbledore being pals with grindelwald, but now it’s just something to laugh about for people who didn’t like Albus_Dumbledore, and a bit of a slap in the face for everyone who thought he was such a good bloke. i don’t know that it’s such a big deal, though. he was really young when they —” “our age,” said Harry_Potter, just as he had retorted to Hermione_Granger, and something in his face seemed to decide Ronald_Weasley against pursuing the subject. a large spider sat in the middle of a frosted web in the brambles. Harry_Potter took aim at it with the wand Ronald_Weasley had given him the previous night, which Hermione_Granger had since condescended to examine, and had decided was made of blackthorn. “engorgio.” the spider gave a little shiver, bouncing slightly in the web. Harry_Potter tried again. this time the spider grew slightly larger. “stop that,” said Ronald_Weasley sharply. “i’m sorry i said Albus_Dumbledore was young, okay?” Harry_Potter had forgotten ron’s hatred of spiders. “sorry — reducio.” the spider did not shrink. Harry_Potter looked down at the blackthorn wand. every minor spell he had cast with it so far that day had seemed less powerful than those he had produCedric_Diggory with his phoenix wand. the new one felt intrusively unfamiliar, like having somebody else’s hand sewn to the end of his arm. “you just need to practice,” said Hermione_Granger, who had approached them noiselessly from behind and had stood watching anxiously as Harry_Potter tried to enlarge and reduce the spider. “it’s all a matter of confidence, Harry_Potter.” he knew why she wanted it to be all right: she still felt guilty about breaking his wand. he bit back the retort that sprang to his lips, that she could take the blackthorn wand if she thought it made no difference, and he would have hers instead. keen for them all to be friends again, however, he agreed; but when Ronald_Weasley gave Hermione_Granger a tentative smile, she stalked off and vanished behind her book once more. all three of them returned to the tent when darkness fell, and Harry_Potter took first watch. sitting in the entrance, he tried to make the blackthorn wand levitate small stones at his feet; but his magic still seemed clumsier and less powerful than it had done before. Hermione_Granger was lying on her bunk reading, while Ronald_Weasley after many nervous glances up at her, had taken a small wooden wireless out of his rucksack and started to try and tune it. “there’s this one program,” he told Harry_Potter in a low voice, “that tells the news like it really is. all the others are on Tom_Riddle’s side and are following the ministry line, but this one … you wait till you hear it, it’s great. only they can’t do it every night, they have to keep changing locations in case they’re raided, and you need a password to tune in. … trouble is, i missed the last one. …” he drummed lightly on the top of the radio with his wand, muttering random words under his breath. he threw Hermione_Granger many covert glances, plainly fearing an angry outburst, but for all the notice she took of him he might not have been there. for ten minutes or so Ronald_Weasley tapped and muttered, Hermione_Granger turned the pages of her book, and Harry_Potter continued to practice with the blackthorn wand. finally Hermione_Granger climbed down from her bunk. Ronald_Weasley ceased his tapping at once. “if it’s annoying you, i’ll stop!” he told Hermione_Granger nervously. Hermione_Granger did not deign to respond, but approached Harry_Potter. “we need to talk,” she said. he looked at the book still clutched in her hand. it was the life and lies of Albus_Dumbledore. “what?” he said apprehensively. it flew through his mind that there was a chapter on him in there; he was not sure he felt up to hearing Rita_Skeeter’s version of his relationship with Albus_Dumbledore. Hermione_Granger’s answer, however, was completely unexpected. “i want to go and see Xenophilius_Lovegood.” he stared at her. “sorry?” “Xenophilius_Lovegood. Luna_Lovegood’s father. i want to go and talk to him!” “er — why?” she took a deep breath, as though bracing herself, and said, “it’s that mark, the mark in beedle the bard. look at this!” she thrust the life and lies of Albus_Dumbledore under Harry_Potter’s unwilling eyes and he saw a photograph of the original letter that Albus_Dumbledore had written grindelwald, with Albus_Dumbledore’s familiar thin, slanting handwriting. he hated seeing absolute proof that Albus_Dumbledore really had written those words, that they had not been Rita_Skeeter’s invention. “the signature,” said Hermione_Granger. “look at the signature, Harry_Potter!” he obeyed. for a moment he had no idea what she was talking about, but, looking more closely with the aid of his lit wand, he saw that Albus_Dumbledore had replaCedric_Diggory the a of Albus_Dumbledore with a tiny version of the same triangular mark inscribed upon the tales of beedle the bard. “er — what are you — ?” said Ronald_Weasley tentatively, but Hermione_Granger quelled him with a look and turned back to Harry_Potter. “it keeps cropping up, doesn’t it?” she said. “i know Viktor_Krum said it was grindelwald’s mark, but it was definitely on that old grave in godric’s hollow, and the dates on the headstone were long before grindelwald came along! and now this! well, we can’t ask Albus_Dumbledore or grindelwald what it means — i don’t even know whether grindelwald’s still alive — but we can ask mr. lovegood. he was wearing the symbol at the wedding. i’m sure this is important, Harry_Potter!” Harry_Potter did not answer immediately. he looked into her intense, eager face and then out into the surrounding darkness, thinking. after a long pause he said, “Hermione_Granger, we don’t need another godric’s hollow. we talked ourselves into going there, and —” “but it keeps appearing, Harry_Potter! Albus_Dumbledore left me the tales of beedle the bard, how do you know we’re not supposed to find out about the sign?” “here we go again!” Harry_Potter felt slightly exasperated. “we keep trying to convince ourselves Albus_Dumbledore left us secret signs and clues —” “the deluminator turned out to be pretty useful,” piped up Ronald_Weasley “i think Hermione_Granger’s right, i think we ought to go and see lovegood.” Harry_Potter threw him a dark look. he was quite sure that ron’s support of Hermione_Granger had little to do with a desire to know the meaning of the triangular rune. “it won’t be like godric’s hollow,” Ronald_Weasley added, “lovegood’s on your side, Harry_Potter, the quibbler’s been for you all along, it keeps telling everyone they’ve got to help you!” “i’m sure this is important!” said Hermione_Granger earnestly. “but don’t you think if it was, Albus_Dumbledore would have told me about it before he died?” “maybe … maybe it’s something you need to find out for yourself,” said Hermione_Granger with a faint air of clutching at straws. “yeah,” said Ronald_Weasley sycophantically, “that makes sense.” “no, it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione_Granger, “but i still think we ought to talk to mr. lovegood. a symbol that links Albus_Dumbledore, grindelwald, and godric’s hollow? Harry_Potter, i’m sure we ought to know about this!” “i think we should vote on it,” said Ronald_Weasley “those in favor of going to see lovegood —” his hand flew into the air before Hermione_Granger’s. her lips quivered suspiciously as she raised her own. “outvoted, Harry_Potter, sorry,” said Ronald_Weasley clapping him on the back. “fine,” said Harry_Potter, half amused, half irRita_Skeeterted. “only, once we’ve seen lovegood, let’s try and look for some more horcruxes, shall we? where do the lovegoods live, anyway? do either of you know?” “yeah, they’re not far from my place,” said Ronald_Weasley “i dunno exactly where, but mum and dad always point toward the hills whenever they mention them. shouldn’t be hard to find.” when Hermione_Granger had returned to her bunk, Harry_Potter lowered his voice. “you only agreed to try and get back in her good books.” “all’s fair in love and war,” said Ronald_Weasley brightly, “and this is a bit of both. cheer up, it’s the christmas holidays, Luna_Lovegood’ll be home!” they had an excellent view of the village of ottery st. catchpole from the breezy hillside to which they disapparated next morning. from their high vantage point the village looked like a collection of toy houses in the great slanting shafts of sunlight stretching to earth in the breaks between clouds. they stood for a minute or two looking toward the burrow, their hands shadowing their eyes, but all they could make out were the high hedges and trees of the orchard, which afforded the crooked little house protection from muggle eyes. “it’s weird, being this near, but not going to visit,” said Ronald_Weasley “well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. you were there for christmas,” said Hermione_Granger coldly. “i wasn’t at the burrow!” said Ronald_Weasley with an incredulous laugh. “do you think i was going to go back there and tell them all i’d walked out on you? yeah, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley would’ve been great about it. and Ginevra_Weasley, she’d have been really understanding.” “but where have you been, then?” asked Hermione_Granger, surprised. “bill and Fleur_Delacour’s new place. shell cottage. bill’s always been decent to me. he — he wasn’t impressed when he heard what i’d done, but he didn’t go on about it. he knew i was really sorry. none of the rest of the family know i was there. William_Weasley told mum he and Fleur_Delacour weren’t going home for christmas because they wanted to spend it alone. you know, first holiday after they were married. i don’t think Fleur_Delacour minded. you know how much she hates celestina warbeck.” Ronald_Weasley turned his back on the burrow. “let’s try up here,” he said, leading the way over the top of the hill. they walked for a few hours, Harry_Potter, at Hermione_Granger’s insistence, hidden beneath the invisibility cloak. the cluster of low hills appeared to be uninhabited apart from one small cottage, which seemed deserted. “do you think it’s theirs, and they’ve gone away for christmas?” said Hermione_Granger, peering through the window at a neat little kitchen with geraniums on the windowsill. Ronald_Weasley snorted. “listen, i’ve got a feeling you’d be able to tell who lived there if you looked through the lovegoods’ window. let’s try the next lot of hills.” so they disapparated a few Miles_Bletchley farther north. “aha!” shouted Ronald_Weasley as the wind whipped their hair and clothes. Ronald_Weasley was pointing upward, toward the top of the hill on which they had appeared, where a most strange-looking house rose vertically against the sky, a great black cylinder with a ghostly moon hanging behind it in the afternoon sky. “that’s got to be Luna_Lovegood’s house, who else would live in a place like that? it looks like a giant rook!” “it’s nothing like a bird,” said Hermione_Granger, frowning at the tower. “i was talking about a chess rook,” said Ronald_Weasley “a castle to you.” ron’s legs were the longest and he reached the top of the hill first. when Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger caught up with him, panting and clutching stitches in their sides, they found him grinning broadly. “it’s theirs,” said Ronald_Weasley “look.” three hand-painted signs had been tacked to a broken-down gate. the first read, the second, the third, the quibbler. editor: x. lovegood pick your own mistletoe keep off the dirigible plums the gate creaked as they opened it. the zigzagging path leading to the front door was overgrown with a variety of odd plants, including a bush covered in the orange radishlike fruit Luna_Lovegood sometimes wore as earrings. Harry_Potter thought he recognized a snargaluff and gave the wizened stump a wide berth. two aged crab apple trees, bent with the wind, stripped of leaves but still heavy with berry-sized red fruits and bushy crowns of white- beaded mistletoe, stood sentinel on either side of the front door. a little owl with a slightly flattened, hawklike head peered down at them from one of the branches. “you’d better take off the invisibility cloak, Harry_Potter,” said Hermione_Granger. “it’s you mr. lovegood wants to help, not us.” he did as she suggested, handing her the cloak to stow in the beaded bag. she then rapped three times on the thick black door, which was studded with iron nails and bore a knocker shaped like an eagle. barely ten seconds passed, then the door was flung open and there stood Xenophilius_Lovegood, barefoot and wearing what appeared to be a stained nightshirt. his long white candyfloss hair was dirty and unkempt. Xenophilius_Lovegood had been positively dapper at William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s wedding by comparison. “what? what is it? who are you? what do you want?” he cried in a high- pitched, querulous voice, looking first at Hermione_Granger, then at Ronald_Weasley and finally at Harry_Potter, upon which his mouth fell open in a perfect, comical o. “hello, mr. lovegood,” said Harry_Potter, holding out his hand. “i’m Harry_Potter, Harry_Potter.” Xenophilius_Lovegood did not take Harry_Potter’s hand, although the eye that was not pointing inward at his nose slid straight to the scar on Harry_Potter’s forehead. “would it be okay if we came in?” asked Harry_Potter. “there’s something we’d like to ask you.” “i … i’m not sure that’s advisable,” whispered Xenophilius_Lovegood. he swallowed and cast a quick look around the garden. “rather a shock … my word … i … i’m afraid i don’t really think i ought to —” “it won’t take long,” said Harry_Potter, slightly disappointed by this less-than- warm welcome. “i — oh, all right then. come in, quickly. quickly!” they were barely over the threshold when Xenophilius_Lovegood slammed the door shut behind them. they were standing in the most peculiar kitchen Harry_Potter had ever seen. the room was perfectly circular, so that it felt like being inside a giant pepper pot. everything was curved to fit the walls — the stove, the sink, and the cupboards — and all of it had been painted with flowers, insects, and birds in bright primary colors. Harry_Potter thought he recognized Luna_Lovegood’s style: the effect, in such an enclosed space, was slightly overwhelming. in the middle of the floor, a wrought-iron spiral staircase led to the upper levels. there was a great deal of clattering and banging coming from overhead: Harry_Potter wondered what Luna_Lovegood could be doing. “you’d better come up,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, still looking extremely uncomfortable, and he led the way. the room above seemed to be a combination of living room and workplace, and as such, was even more cluttered than the kitchen. though much smaller and entirely round, the room somewhat resembled the room of requirement on the unforgettable occasion that it had transformed itself into a gigantic labyrinth comprised of centuries of hidden objects. there were piles upon piles of books and papers on every surface. delicately made models of creatures Harry_Potter did not recognize, all flapping wings or snapping jaws, hung from the ceiling. Luna_Lovegood was not there: the thing that was making such a racket was a wooden object covered in magically turning cogs and wheels. it looked like the bizarre offspring of a workbench and a set of old shelves, but after a moment Harry_Potter deduCedric_Diggory that it was an old-fashioned printing press, due to the fact that it was churning out quibblers. “excuse me,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood, and he strode over to the machine, seized a grubby tablecloth from beneath an immense number of books and papers, which all tumbled onto the floor, and threw it over the press, somewhat muffling the loud bangs and clatters. he then faCedric_Diggory Harry_Potter. “why have you come here?” before Harry_Potter could speak, however, Hermione_Granger let out a small cry of shock. “mr. lovegood — what’s that?” she was pointing at an enormous, gray spiral horn, not unlike that of a unicorn, which had been mounted on the wall, protruding several feet into the room. “it is the horn of a crumple-horned snorkack,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “no it isn’t!” said Hermione_Granger. “Hermione_Granger,” muttered Harry_Potter, embarrassed, “now’s not the moment —” “but Harry_Potter, it’s an erumpent horn! it’s a class b tradeable material and it’s an extraordinarily dangerous thing to have in a house!” “how d’you know it’s an erumpent horn?” asked Ronald_Weasley edging away from the horn as fast as he could, given the extreme clutter of the room. “there’s a description in fantastic beasts and where to find them! mr. lovegood, you need to get rid of it straightaway, don’t you know it can explode at the slightest touch?” “the crumple-horned snorkack,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood very clearly, a mulish look upon his face, “is a shy and highly magical creature, and its horn —” “mr. lovegood, i recognize the grooved markings around the base, that’s an erumpent horn and it’s incredibly dangerous — i don’t know where you got it —” “i bought it,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood dogmatically, “two weeks ago, from a delightful young wizard who knew of my interest in the exquisite snorkack. a christmas surprise for my Luna_Lovegood. now,” he said, turning to Harry_Potter, “why exactly have you come here, mr. potter?” “we need some help,” said Harry_Potter, before Hermione_Granger could start again. “ah,” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “help. hmm.” his good eye moved again to Harry_Potter’s scar. he seemed simultaneously terrified and mesmerized. “yes. the thing is … helping Harry_Potter … rather dangerous …” “aren’t you the one who keeps telling everyone it’s their first duty to help Harry_Potter?” said Ronald_Weasley “in that magazine of yours?” Xenophilius_Lovegood glanCedric_Diggory behind him at the concealed printing press, still banging and clattering beneath the tablecloth. “er — yes, i have expressed that view. however —” “that’s for everyone else to do, not you personally?” said Ronald_Weasley Xenophilius_Lovegood did not answer. he kept swallowing, his eyes darting between the three of them. Harry_Potter had the impression that he was undergoing some painful internal struggle. “where’s Luna_Lovegood?” asked Hermione_Granger. “let’s see what she thinks.” Xenophilius_Lovegood gulped. he seemed to be steeling himself. finally he said in a shaky voice difficult to hear over the noise of the printing press, “Luna_Lovegood is down at the stream, fishing for freshwater plimpies. she … she will like to see you. i’ll go and call her and then — yes, very well. i shall try to help you.” he disappeared down the spiral staircase and they heard the front door open and close. they looked at each other. “cowardly old wart,” said Ronald_Weasley “Luna_Lovegood’s got ten times his guts.” “he’s probably worried about what’ll happen to them if the death eaters find out i was here,” said Harry_Potter. “well, i agree with Ronald_Weasley” said Hermione_Granger. “awful old hypocrite, telling everyone else to help you and trying to worm out of it himself. and for heaven’s sake keep away from that horn.” Harry_Potter crossed to the window on the far side of the room. he could see a stream, a thin, glittering ribbon lying far below them at the base of the hill. they were very high up; a bird fluttered past the window as he stared in the direction of the burrow, now invisible beyond another line of hills. Ginevra_Weasley was over there somewhere. they were closer to each other today than they had been since William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s wedding, but she could have no idea he was gazing toward her now, thinking of her. he supposed he ought to be glad of it; anyone he came into contact with was in danger, Xenophilius_Lovegood’s attitude proved that. he turned away from the window and his gaze fell upon another peculiar object standing upon the cluttered, curved sideboard: a stone bust of a beautiful but austere-looking witch wearing a most bizarre-looking headdress. two objects that resembled golden ear trumpets curved out from the sides. a tiny pair of glittering blue wings was stuck to a leather strap that ran over the top of her head, while one of the orange radishes had been stuck to a second strap around her forehead. “look at this,” said Harry_Potter. “fetching,” said Ronald_Weasley “surprised he didn’t wear that to the wedding.” they heard the front door close, and a moment later Xenophilius_Lovegood had climbed back up the spiral staircase into the room, his thin legs now encased in wellington boots, bearing a tray of ill-assorted teacups and a steaming teapot. “ah, you have spotted my pet invention,” he said, shoving the tray into Hermione_Granger’s arms and joining Harry_Potter at the statue’s side. “modeled, fittingly enough, upon the head of the beautiful rOwen_Cauldwella ravenclaw. ‘wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure!’ ” he indicated the objects like ear trumpets. “these are the wrackspurt siphons — to remove all sources of distraction from the thinker’s immediate area. here,” he pointed out the tiny wings, “a billywig propeller, to induce an elevated frame of mind. finally,” he pointed to the orange radish, “the dirigible plum, so as to enhance the ability to accept the extraordinary.” Xenophilius_Lovegood strode back to the tea tray, which Hermione_Granger had managed to balance precariously on one of the cluttered side tables. “may i offer you all an infusion of gurdyroots?” said Xenophilius_Lovegood. “we make it ourselves.” as he started to pour out the drink, which was as deeply purple as beetroot juice, he added, “Luna_Lovegood is down beyond bottom bridge, she is most excited that you are here. she ought not to be too long, she has caught nearly enough plimpies to make soup for all of us. do sit down and help yourselves to sugar. “now,” he removed a tottering pile of papers from an armchair and sat down, his wellingtoned legs crossed, “how may i help you, mr. potter?” “well,” said Harry_Potter, glancing at Hermione_Granger, who nodded encouragingly, “it’s about that symbol you were wearing around your neck at William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s wedding, mr. lovegood. we wondered what it meant.” Xenophilius_Lovegood raised his eyebrows. “are you referring to the sign of the deathly hallows?” 