chapter 6 the ghoul in pajamas the shock of losing Alastor_Moody hung over the house in the days that followed; Harry_Potter kept expecting to see him stumping in through the back door like the other order members, who passed in and out to relay news. Harry_Potter felt that nothing but action would assuage his feelings of guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mission to find and desTroy horcruxes as soon as possible. “well, you can’t do anything about the” — Ronald_Weasley mouthed the word horcruxes — “till you’re seventeen. you’ve still got the trace on you. and we can plan here as well as anywhere, can’t we? or,” he dropped his voice to a whisper, “d’you reckon you already know where the you-know-whats are?” “no,” Harry_Potter admitted. “i think Hermione_Granger’s been doing a bit of research,” said Ronald_Weasley “she said she was saving it for when you got here.” they were sitting at the breakfast table; mr. weasley and William_Weasley had just left for work. mrs. weasley had gone upstairs to wake Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley, while Fleur_Delacour had drifted off to take a bath. “the trace’ll break on the thirty-first,” said Harry_Potter. “that means i only need to stay here four days. then i can —” “five days,” Ronald_Weasley corrected him firmly. “we’ve got to stay for the wedding. they’ll kill us if we miss it.” Harry_Potter understood “they” to mean Fleur_Delacour and mrs. weasley. “it’s one extra day,” said Ronald_Weasley when Harry_Potter looked mutinous. “don’t they realize how important — ?” “ ’course they don’t,” said Ronald_Weasley “they haven’t got a clue. and now you mention it, i wanted to talk to you about that.” Ronald_Weasley glanced toward the door into the hall to check that mrs. weasley was not returning yet, then leaned in closer to Harry_Potter. “mum’s been trying to get it out of Hermione_Granger and me. what we’re off to do. she’ll try you next, so brace yourself. dad and lupin’ve both asked as well, but when we said Albus_Dumbledore told you not to tell anyone except us, they dropped it. not mum, though. she’s determined.” ron’s prediction came true within hours. shortly before lunch, mrs. weasley detached Harry_Potter from the others by asking him to help identify a lone man’s sock that she thought might have come out of his rucksack. once she had him cornered in the tiny scullery off the kitchen, she started. “ron and Hermione_Granger seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of hogwarts,” she began in a light, casual tone. “oh,” said Harry_Potter. “well, yeah. we are.” the mangle turned of its own accord in a corner, wringing out what looked like one of mr. weasley’s vests. “may i ask why you are abandoning your education?” said mrs. weasley. “well, Albus_Dumbledore left me … stuff to do,” mumbled Harry_Potter. “ron and Hermione_Granger know about it, and they want to come too.” “what sort of ‘stuff’?” “i’m sorry, i can’t —” “well, Frank_Longbottomly, i think Arthur_Weasley and i have a right to know, and i’m sure mr. and mrs. granger would agree!” said mrs. weasley. Harry_Potter had been afraid of the “concerned parent” attack. he forced himself to look directly into her eyes, noticing as he did so that they were precisely the same shade of brown as Ginevra_Weasley’s. this did not help. “Albus_Dumbledore didn’t want anyone else to know, mrs. weasley. i’m sorry. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger don’t have to come, it’s their choice —” “i don’t see that you have to go either!” she snapped, dropping all pretense now. “you’re barely of age, any of you! it’s utter nonsense, if Albus_Dumbledore needed work doing, he had the whole order at his command! Harry_Potter, you must have misunderstood him. probably he was telling you something he wanted done, and you took it to mean that he wanted you —” “i didn’t misunderstand,” said Harry_Potter flatly. “it’s got to be me.” he handed her back the single sock he was supposed to be identifying, which was patterned with golden bulrushes. “and that’s not mine, i don’t support puddlemere united.” “oh, of course not,” said mrs. weasley with a sudden and rather unnerving return to her casual tone. “i should have realized. well, Harry_Potter, while we’ve still got you here, you won’t mind helping with the preparations for William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s wedding, will you? there’s still so much to do.” “no — i — of course not,” said Harry_Potter, disconcerted by this sudden change of subject. “sweet of you,” she replied, and she smiled as she left the scullery. from that moment on, mrs. weasley kept Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger so busy with preparations for the wedding that they hardly had any time to think. the kindest explanation of this behavior would have been that mrs. weasley wanted to distract them all from thoughts of Alastor_Moody and the terrors of their recent journey. after two days of nonstop cutlery cleaning, of color-matching favors, ribbons, and flowers, of de-gnoming the garden and helping mrs. weasley Cook_of_The_Hanged_Man vast batches of canapés, however, Harry_Potter started to suspect her of a different motive. all the jobs she handed out seemed to keep him, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger away from one another; he had not had a chance to speak to the two of them alone since the first night, when he had told them about voldemort torturing Garrick_Ollivander. “i think mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you getting together and planning, she’ll be able to delay you leaving,” Ginevra_Weasley told Harry_Potter in an undertone, as they laid the table for dinner on the third night of his stay. “and then what does she think’s going to happen?” Harry_Potter muttered. “someone else might kill off voldemort while she’s holding us here making vol-au-vents?” he had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginevra_Weasley’s face whiten. “so it’s true?” she said. “that’s what you’re trying to do?” “i — not — i was joking,” said Harry_Potter evasively. they stared at each other, and there was something more than shock in Ginevra_Weasley’s expression. suddenly Harry_Potter became aware that this was the first time that he had been alone with her since those stolen hours in secluded corners of the hogwarts grounds. he was sure she was remembering them too. both of them jumped as the door opened, and mr. weasley, Kingsley_Shacklebolt, and William_Weasley walked in. they were often joined by other order members for dinner now, because the burrow had replaced number twelve, grimmauld place as the the death of headquarters. mr. weasley had explained Albus_Dumbledore, their secret-keeper, each of the people to whom Albus_Dumbledore had confided grimmauld place’s location had become a secret-keeper in turn. that after  “and as there are around twenty of us, that greatly dilutes the power of the fidelius charm. twenty times as many opportunities for the death eaters to get the secret out of somebody. we can’t expect it to hold much longer.” “but surely snape will have told the death eaters the address by now?” asked Harry_Potter. “well, Alastor_Moody set up a couple of curses against snape in case he turns up there again. we Hope_Howell they’ll be strong enough both to keep him out and to bind his tongue if he tries to talk about the place, but we can’t be sure. it would have been insane to keep using the place as headquarters now that its protection has become so shaky.” the kitchen was so crowded that evening it was difficult to maneuver knives and forks. Harry_Potter found himself crammed beside Ginevra_Weasley; the unsaid things that had just passed between them made him wish they had been separated by a few more people. he was trying so hard to avoid brushing her arm he could barely cut his chicken. “no news about Alastor_Moody?” Harry_Potter asked bill. “nothing,” replied bill. they had not been able to hold a funeral for moody, because William_Weasley and lupin had failed to recover his body. it had been difficult to know where he might have fallen, given the darkness and the confusion of the battle. “the daily prophet hasn’t said a word about him dying or about finding the body,” William_Weasley went on. “but that doesn’t mean much. it’s keeping a lot quiet these days.” “and they still haven’t called a hearing about all the underage magic i used escaping the death eaters?” Harry_Potter called across the table to mr. weasley, who shook his head. “because they know i had no choice or because they don’t want me to tell the world voldemort attacked me?” “the latter, i think. scrimgeour doesn’t want to admit that you-know- who is as powerful as he is, nor that azkaban’s seen a mass breakout.” “yeah, why tell the public the truth?” said Harry_Potter, clenching his knife so tightly that the faint scars on the back of his right hand stood out, white against his skin: i must not tell lies. “isn’t anyone at the ministry prepared to stand up to him?” asked Ronald_Weasley angrily. “of course, Ronald_Weasley but people are terrified,” mr. weasley replied, “terrified that they will be next to disappear, their children the next to be attacked! there are nasty rumors going around; i for one don’t believe the muggle studies professor at hogwarts resigned. she hasn’t been seen for weeks now. meanwhile scrimgeour remains shut up in his office all day: i just Hope_Howell he’s working on a plan.” there was a pause in which mrs. weasley magicked the empty plates onto the work surface and served apple tart. “we must decide ’ow you will be disguised, ’arry,” said Fleur_Delacour, once everyone had pudding. “for ze wedding,” she added, when he looked confused. “of course, none of our guests are death eaters, but we cannot guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after zey ’ave ’ad champagne.” from this, Harry_Potter gathered that she still suspected Rubeus_Hagrid. “yes, good point,” said mrs. weasley from the top of the table, where she sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jobs that she had scribbled on a very long piece of parchment. “now, Ronald_Weasley have you cleaned out your room yet?” “why?” exclaimed Ronald_Weasley slamming his spoon down and glaring at his mother. “why does my room have to be cleaned out? Harry_Potter and i are fine with it the way it is!” “we are holding your brother’s wedding here in a few days’ time, young man —” “and are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked Ronald_Weasley furiously. “no! so why in the name of merlin’s saggy left —” “don’t talk to your mother like that,” said mr. weasley firmly. “and do as you’re told.” Ronald_Weasley scowled at both his parents, then picked up his spoon and attacked the last few mouthfuls of his apple tart. “i can help, some of it’s my mess,” Harry_Potter told Ronald_Weasley but mrs. weasley cut across him. “no, Harry_Potter, dear, i’d much rather you helped Arthur_Weasley muck out the chickens, and Hermione_Granger, i’d be ever so grateful if you’d change the sheets for monsieur and madame delacour; you know they’re arriving at eleven tomorrow morning.” but as it turned out, there was very little to do for the chickens. “there’s no need to, er, mention it to Molly_Weasley,” mr. weasley told Harry_Potter, blocking his access to the coop, “but, er, Edward_Tonks Nymphadora_Tonks sent me most of what was left of Sirius_Black’s bike and, er, i’m hiding — that’s to say, keeping — it in here. fantastic stuff: there’s an exhaust gaskin, as i believe it’s called, the most magnificent battery, and it’ll be a great opportunity to find out how brakes work. i’m going to try and put it all back together again when Molly_Weasley’s not — i mean, when i’ve got time.” when they returned to the house, mrs. weasley was nowhere to be seen, so Harry_Potter slipped upstairs to ron’s attic bedroom. “i’m doing it, i’m doing — ! oh, it’s you,” said Ronald_Weasley in relief, as Harry_Potter entered the room. Ronald_Weasley lay back down on the bed, which he had evidently just vacated. the room was just as messy as it had been all week; the only change was that Hermione_Granger was now sitting in the far corner, her Fluffy ginger cat, Crookshanks, at her feet, sorting books, some of which Harry_Potter recognized as his own, into two enormous piles. “hi, Harry_Potter,” she said, as he sat down on his camp bed. “and how did you manage to get away?” “oh, ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginevra_Weasley and me to change the sheets yesterday,” said Hermione_Granger. she threw numerology and grammatica onto one pile and the rise and fall of the dark arts onto the other. “we were just talking about Alastor_Moody,” Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter. “i reckon he might have survived.” “but William_Weasley saw him hit by the killing curse,” said Harry_Potter. “yeah, but William_Weasley was under attack too,” said Ronald_Weasley “how can he be sure what he saw?” “even if the killing curse missed, Alastor_Moody still fell about a thousand feet,” said Hermione_Granger, now weighing quidditch teams of bRita_Skeeterin and ireland in her hand. “he could have used a shield charm —” “Fleur_Delacour said his wand was blasted out of his hand,” said Harry_Potter. “well, all right, if you want him to be dead,” said Ronald_Weasley grumpily, punching his pillow into a more comfortable shape. “of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said Hermione_Granger, looking shocked. “it’s dreadful that he’s dead! but we’re being realistic!” for the first time, Harry_Potter imagined Alastor_Moody’s body, broken as Albus_Dumbledore’s had been, yet with that one eye still whizzing in its socket. he felt a stab of revulsion mixed with a bizarre desire to laugh. “the death eaters probably tidied up after themselves, that’s why no one’s found him,” said Ronald_Weasley wisely. “yeah,” said Harry_Potter. “like Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch, turned into a bone and buried in Rubeus_Hagrid’s front garden. they probably transfigured moody and stuffed him —” “don’t!” squealed Hermione_Granger. startled, Harry_Potter looked over just in time to see her burst into tears over her copy of spellman’s syllabary. “oh no,” said Harry_Potter, struggling to get up from the old camp bed. “Hermione_Granger, i wasn’t trying to upset —” but with a great creaking of rusty bedsprings, Ronald_Weasley bounded off the bed and got there first. one arm around Hermione_Granger, he fished in his jeans pocket and withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he had used to clean out the oven earlier. hastily pulling out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said, “tergeo.” the wand siphoned off most of the grease. looking rather pleased with himself, Ronald_Weasley handed the slightly smoking handkerchief to Hermione_Granger. “oh … thanks, Ronald_Weasley … i’m sorry. …” she blew her nose and hiccuped. “it’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? r-right after Albus_Dumbledore … i j-just n-never imagined Alastor_Moody dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!” “yeah, i know,” said Ronald_Weasley giving her a squeeze. “but you know what he’d say to us if he was here?” “ ‘c-constant vigilance,’ ” said Hermione_Granger, mopping her eyes. “that’s right,” said Ronald_Weasley nodding. “he’d tell us to learn from what happened to him. and what i’ve learned is not to trust that cowardly little squit, MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher.” Hermione_Granger gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to pick up two more books. a second later, Ronald_Weasley had snatched his arm back from around her shoulders; she had dropped the monster book of monsters on his foot. the book had broken free from its restraining belt and snapped viciously at ron’s ankle. “i’m sorry, i’m sorry!” Hermione_Granger cried as Harry_Potter wrenched the book from ron’s leg and retied it shut. “what are you doing with all those books anyway?” Ronald_Weasley asked, limping back to his bed. “just trying to decide which ones to take with us,” said Hermione_Granger. “when we’re looking for the horcruxes.” “oh, of course,” said Ronald_Weasley clapping a hand to his forehead. “i forgot we’ll be hunting down voldemort in a mobile library.” “ha ha,” said Hermione_Granger, looking down at spellman’s syllabary. “i wonder … will we need to translate runes? it’s possible. … i think we’d better take it, to be safe.” she dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two piles and picked up hogwarts, a history. “listen,” said Harry_Potter. he had sat up straight. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked at him with similar mixtures of resignation and defiance. “i know you said after Albus_Dumbledore’s funeral that you wanted to come with me,” Harry_Potter began. “here he goes,” Ronald_Weasley said to Hermione_Granger, rolling his eyes. “as we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to the books. “you know, i think i will take hogwarts, a history. even if we’re not going back there, i don’t think i’d feel right if i didn’t have it with —” “listen!” said Harry_Potter again. “no, Harry_Potter, you listen,” said Hermione_Granger. “we’re coming with you. that was decided months ago — years, really.” “but —” “shut up,” Ronald_Weasley advised him. “— are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Harry_Potter persisted. “let’s see,” said Hermione_Granger, slamming travels with trolls onto the discarded pile with a rather fierce look. “i’ve been packing for days, so we’re ready to leave at a moment’s notice, which for your information has included doing some pretty difficult magic, not to mention smuggling mad- eye’s whole stock of polyjuice potion right under ron’s mum’s nose. “i’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that they’re convinced they’re really called wendell and Hermione_Granger's_mother, and that their life’s ambition is to move to australia, which they have now done. that’s to make it more difficult for voldemort to track them down and interrogate them about me — or you, because unfortunately, i’ve told them quite a bit about you. “assuming i survive our hunt for the horcruxes, i’ll find mum and dad and lift the enchantment. if i don’t — well, i think i’ve cast a good enough charm to keep them safe and happy. wendell and Hermione_Granger's_mother don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see. Hermione_Granger’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ronald_Weasley got back off the bed, put his arm around her once more, and frowned at Harry_Potter as though reproaching him for lack of tact. Harry_Potter could not think of anything to say, not least because it was highly unusual for Ronald_Weasley to be teaching anyone else tact. “i — Hermione_Granger, i’m sorry — i didn’t —” “didn’t realize that Ronald_Weasley and i know perfectly well what might happen if we come with you? well, we do. Ronald_Weasley show Harry_Potter what you’ve done.” “nah, he’s just eaten,” said Ronald_Weasley “go on, he needs to know!” “oh, all right. Harry_Potter, come here.” for the second time Ronald_Weasley withdrew his arm from around Hermione_Granger and stumped over to the door. “c’mon.” “why?” Harry_Potter asked, following Ronald_Weasley out of the room onto the tiny landing. “descendo,” muttered Ronald_Weasley pointing his wand at the low ceiling. a hatch opened right over their heads and a ladder slid down to their feet. a horrible, half-sucking, half-moaning sound came out of the square hole, along with an unpleasant smell like open drains. “that’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Harry_Potter, who had never actually met the creature that sometimes disrupted the nightly silence. “yeah, it is,” said Ronald_Weasley climbing the ladder. “come and have a look at him.” Harry_Potter followed Ronald_Weasley up the few short steps into the tiny attic space. his head and shoulders were in the room before he caught sight of the creature curled up a few feet from him, fast asleep in the gloom with its large mouth wide open. “but it … it looks … do ghouls normally wear pajamas?” “no,” said Ronald_Weasley “nor have they usually got red hair or that number of pustules.” Harry_Potter contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. it was human in shape and size, and was wearing what, now that Harry_Potter’s eyes became used to the darkness, was clearly an old pair of ron’s pajamas. he was also sure that ghouls were generally rather slimy and bald, rather than distinctly hairy and covered in angry purple blisters. “he’s me, see?” said Ronald_Weasley “no,” said Harry_Potter. “i don’t.” “i’ll explain it back in my room, the smell’s getting to me,” said Ronald_Weasley they climbed back down the ladder, which Ronald_Weasley returned to the ceiling, and rejoined Hermione_Granger, who was still sorting books. “once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live down here in my room,” said Ronald_Weasley “i think he’s really looking forward to it — well, it’s hard to tell, because all he can do is moan and drool — but he nods a lot when you mention it. anyway, he’s going to be me with spattergroit. good, eh?” Harry_Potter merely looked his confusion. “it is!” said Ronald_Weasley clearly frustrated that Harry_Potter had not grasped the brilliance of the plan. “look, when we three don’t turn up at hogwarts again, everyone’s going to think Hermione_Granger and i must be with you, right? which means the death eaters will go straight for our families to see if they’ve got information on where you are.” “but Hope_Howellfully it’ll look like i’ve gone away with mum and dad; a lot of muggle-borns are talking about going into hiding at the moment,” said Hermione_Granger. “we can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ronald_Weasley “so we’re going to put out the story that i’m seriously ill with spattergroit, which is why i can’t go back to school. if anyone comes calling to investigate, mum or dad can show them the ghoul in my bed, covered in pustules. spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going to want to go near him. it won’t matter that he can’t say anything, either, because apparently you can’t once the fungus has spread to your uvula.” “and your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked Harry_Potter. “dad is. he helped Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley transform the ghoul. mum … well, you’ve seen what she’s like. she won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone.” there was silence in the room, broken only by gentle thuds as Hermione_Granger continued to throw books onto one pile or the other. Ronald_Weasley sat watching her, and Harry_Potter looked from one to the other, unable to say anything. the measures they had taken to protect their families made him realize, more than anything else could have done, that they really were going to come with him and that they knew exactly how dangerous that would be. he wanted to tell them what that meant to him, but he simply could not find words important enough. through the silence came the muffled sounds of mrs. weasley shouting from four floors below. “Ginevra_Weasley’s probably left a speck of dust on a poxy napkin ring,” said Ronald_Weasley “i dunno why the delacours have got to come two days before the wedding.” “Fleur_Delacour’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her own,” said Hermione_Granger, as she pored indecisively over break with a banshee. “well, guests aren’t going to help mum’s stress levels,” said Ronald_Weasley “what we really need to decide,” said Hermione_Granger, tossing defensive magical theory into the bin without a second glance and picking up an appraisal of magical education in europe, “is where we’re going after we leave here. i know you said you wanted to go to godric’s hollow first, Harry_Potter, and i understand why, but … well … shouldn’t we make the horcruxes our priority?” “if we knew where any of the horcruxes were, i’d agree with you,” said Harry_Potter, who did not believe that Hermione_Granger really understood his desire to return to godric’s hollow. his parents’ graves were only part of the attraction: he had a strong, though inexplicable, feeling that the place held answers for him. perhaps it was simply because it was there that he had survived voldemort’s killing curse; now that he was facing the challenge of repeating the feat, Harry_Potter was drawn to the place where it had happened, wanting to understand. “don’t you think there’s a possibility that voldemort’s keeping a watch on godric’s hollow?” Hermione_Granger asked. “he might expect you to go back and visit your parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you like?” this had not occurred to Harry_Potter. while he struggled to find a counterargument, Ronald_Weasley spoke up, evidently following his own train of thought. “this Regulus_Black person,” he said. “you know, the one who stole the real locket?” Hermione_Granger nodded. “he said in his note he was going to desTroy it, didn’t he?” Harry_Potter dragged his rucksack toward him and pulled out the fake horcrux in which Regulus_Black’s note was still folded. “ ‘i have stolen the real horcrux and intend to desTroy it as soon as i can,’ ” Harry_Potter read out. “well, what if he did finish it off?” said Ronald_Weasley “or she,” interposed Hermione_Granger. “whichever,” said Ronald_Weasley “it’d be one less for us to do!” “yes, but we’re still going to have to try and trace the real locket, aren’t we?” said Hermione_Granger, “to find out whether or not it’s desTroyed.” “and once we get hold of it, how do you desTroy a horcrux?” asked Ronald_Weasley “well,” said Hermione_Granger, “i’ve been researching that.” “how?” asked Harry_Potter. “i didn’t think there were any books on horcruxes in the library?” “there weren’t,” said Hermione_Granger, who had turned pink. “Albus_Dumbledore removed them all, but he — he didn’t desTroy them.” Ronald_Weasley sat up straight, wide-eyed. “how in the name of merlin’s pants have you managed to get your hands on those horcrux books?” “it — it wasn’t stealing!” said Hermione_Granger, looking from Harry_Potter to Ronald_Weasley with a kind of desperation. “they were still library books, even if Albus_Dumbledore had taken them off the shelves. anyway, if he really didn’t want anyone to get at them, i’m sure he would have made it much harder to —” “get to the point!” said Ronald_Weasley “well … it was easy,” said Hermione_Granger in a small voice. “i just did a summoning charm. you know — accio. and — they zoomed out of Albus_Dumbledore’s study window right into the girls’ dormitory.” “but when did you do this?” Harry_Potter asked, regarding Hermione_Granger with a mixture of admiration and incredulity. “just after his — Albus_Dumbledore’s — funeral,” said Hermione_Granger in an even smaller voice. “right after we agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the horcruxes. when i went back upstairs to get my things it — it just occurred to me that the more we knew about them, the better it would be … and i was alone in there … so i tried … and it worked. they flew straight in through the open window and i — i packed them.” she swallowed and then said imploringly, “i can’t believe Albus_Dumbledore would have been angry, it’s not as though we’re going to use the information to make a horcrux, is it?” “can you hear us complaining?” said Ronald_Weasley “where are these books anyway?” Hermione_Granger rummaged for a moment and then extracted from the pile a large volume, bound in faded black leather. she looked a little nauseated and held it as gingerly as if it were something recently dead. “this is the one that gives explicit instructions on how to make a horcrux. secrets of the darkest art — it’s a horrible book, really awful, full of evil magic. i wonder when Albus_Dumbledore removed it from the library. … if he didn’t do it until he was headmaster, i bet voldemort got all the instruction he needed from here.” “why did he have to ask slughorn how to make a horcrux, then, if he’d already read that?” asked Ronald_Weasley “he only approached slughorn to find out what would happen if you split your soul into seven,” said Harry_Potter. “Albus_Dumbledore was sure riddle already knew how to make a horcrux by the time he asked slughorn about them. i think you’re right, Hermione_Granger, that could easily have been where he got the information.” “and the more i’ve read about them,” said Hermione_Granger, “the more horrible they seem, and the less i can believe that he actually made six. it warns in this book how unstable you make the rest of your soul by ripping it, and that’s just by making one horcrux!” Harry_Potter remembered what Albus_Dumbledore had said about voldemort moving beyond “usual evil.” “isn’t there any way of putting yourself back together?” Ronald_Weasley asked. “yes,” said Hermione_Granger with a hollow smile, “but  it would be excruciatingly painful.” “why? how do you do it?” asked Harry_Potter. “remorse,” said Hermione_Granger. “you’ve got to really feel what you’ve done. there’s a footnote. apparently the pain of it can desTroy you. i can’t see voldemort attempting it somehow, can you?” “no,” said Ronald_Weasley before Harry_Potter could answer. “so does it say how to desTroy horcruxes in that book?” “yes,” said Hermione_Granger, now turning the fragile pages as if examining rotting entrails, “because it warns dark wizards how strong they have to make the enchantments on them. from all that i’ve read, what Harry_Potter did to riddle’s diary was one of the few really foolproof ways of desTroying a horcrux.” “what, stabbing it with a Basilisk Fang?” asked Harry_Potter. “oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large supply of Basilisk Fangs, then,” said Ronald_Weasley “i was wondering what we were going to do with them.” “it doesn’t have to be a Basilisk Fang,” said Hermione_Granger patiently. “it has to be something so destructive that the horcrux can’t repair itself. Basilisk venom only has one antidote, and it’s incredibly rare — “— phoenix tears,” said Harry_Potter, nodding. “exactly,” said Hermione_Granger. “our problem is that there are very few substances as destructive as Basilisk venom, and they’re all dangerous to carry around with you. that’s a problem we’re going to have to solve, though, because ripping, smashing, or crushing a horcrux won’t do the trick. you’ve got to put it beyond magical repair.” “but even if we wreck the thing it lives in,” said Ronald_Weasley “why can’t the bit of soul in it just go and live in something else?” “because a horcrux is the complete opposite of a human being.” seeing that Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley looked thoroughly confused, Hermione_Granger hurried on, “look, if i picked up a sword right now, Ronald_Weasley and ran you through with it, i wouldn’t damage your soul at all.” “which would be a real comfort to me, i’m sure,” said Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter laughed. “it should be, actually! but my point is that whatever happens to your body, your soul will survive, untouched,” said Hermione_Granger. “but it’s the other way round with a horcrux. the fragment of soul inside it depends on its container, its enchanted body, for survival. it can’t exist without it.” “that diary sort of died when i stabbed it,” said Harry_Potter, remembering ink pouring like blood from the punctured pages, and the screams of the piece of voldemort’s soul as it vanished. “and once the diary was properly desTroyed, the bit of soul trapped in it could no longer exist. Ginevra_Weasley tried to get rid of the diary before you did, flushing it away, but obviously it came back good as new.” “hang on,” said Ronald_Weasley frowning. “the bit of soul in that diary was possessing Ginevra_Weasley, wasn’t it? how does that work, then?” “while the magical container is still intact, the bit of soul inside it can flit in and out of someone if they get too close to the object. i don’t mean holding it for too long, it’s nothing to do with touching it,” she added before Ronald_Weasley could speak. “i mean close emotionally. Ginevra_Weasley poured her heart out into that diary, she made herself incredibly vulnerable. you’re in trouble if you get too fond of or dependent on the horcrux.” “i wonder how Albus_Dumbledore desTroyed the ring?” said Harry_Potter. “why didn’t i ask him? i never really …” his voice tailed away: he was thinking of all the things he should have asked Albus_Dumbledore, and of how, since the headmaster had died, it seemed to Harry_Potter that he had wasted so many opportunities when Albus_Dumbledore had been alive, to find out more … to find out everything. … the silence was shattered as the bedroom door flew open with a wall- shaking crash. Hermione_Granger shrieked and dropped secrets of the darkest art; Crookshanks streaked under the bed, hissing indignantly; Ronald_Weasley jumped off the bed, skidded on a discarded chocolate frog wrapper, and smacked his head on the opposite wall; and Harry_Potter instinctively dived for his wand before realizing that he was looking up at mrs. weasley, whose hair was disheveled and whose face was contorted with rage. “i’m so sorry to break up this cozy little gathering,” she said, her voice trembling. “i’m sure you all need your rest … but there are wedding presents stacked in my room that need sorting out and i was under the impression that you had agreed to help.” “oh yes,” said Hermione_Granger, looking terrified as she leapt to her feet, sending books flying in every direction, “we will … we’re sorry …” with an anguished look at Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger hurried out of the room after mrs. weasley. “it’s like being a house-elf,” complained Ronald_Weasley in an undertone, still massaging his head as he and Harry_Potter followed. “except without the job satisfaction. the sooner this wedding’s over, the happier i’ll be.” “yeah,” said Harry_Potter, “then we’ll have nothing to do except find horcruxes. … it’ll be like a holiday, won’t it?” Ronald_Weasley started to laugh, but at the sight of the enormous pile of wedding presents waiting for them in mrs. weasley’s room, stopped quite abruptly. the delacours arrived the following morning at eleven o’clock. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger, and Ginevra_Weasley were feeling quite resentful toward Fleur_Delacour’s family by this time, and it was with ill grace that Ronald_Weasley stumped back upstairs to put on matching socks, and Harry_Potter attempted to flatten his hair. once they had all been deemed smart enough, they trooped out into the sunny backyard to await the visitors. Harry_Potter had never seen the place looking so tidy. the rusty cauldrons and old wellington boots that usually littered the steps by the back door were gone, replaced by two new flutterby bushes standing either side of the door in large pots; though there was no breeze, the leaves waved lazily, giving an attractive rippling effect. the chickens had been shut away, the yard had been swept, and the nearby garden had been pruned, plucked, and generally spruced up, although Harry_Potter, who liked it in its overgrown state, thought that it looked rather forlorn without its usual contingent of capering gnomes. he had lost track of how many security enchantments had been placed upon the burrow by both the order and the ministry; all he knew was that it was no longer possible for anybody to travel by magic directly into the place. mr. weasley had therefore gone to meet the delacours on top of a nearby hill, where they were to arrive by portkey. the first sound of their approach was an unusually high-pitched laugh, which turned out to be coming from mr. weasley, who appeared at the gate moments later, laden with luggage and leading a beautiful blonde woman in long, leaf-green robes, who could only be Fleur_Delacour’s mother. “maman!” cried Fleur_Delacour, rushing forward to embrace her. “papa!” monsieur delacour was nowhere near as attractive as his wife; he was a head shorter and extremely plump, with a little, pointed black beard. however, he looked good-natured. bouncing toward mrs. weasley on high- heeled boots, he kissed her twice on each cheek, leaving her flustered. “you ’ave been to much trouble,” he said in a deep voice. “Fleur_Delacour tells us you ’ave been working very ’ard.” “oh, it’s been nothing, nothing!” trilled mrs. weasley. “no trouble at all!” Ronald_Weasley relieved his feelings by aiming a kick at a gnome who was peering out from behind one of the new flutterby bushes. “dear lady!” said monsieur delacour, still holding mrs. weasley’s hand between his own two plump ones and beaming. “we are most honored at the approaching union of our two families! let me present my wife, Apolline_Delacour.” madame delacour glided forward and stooped to kiss mrs. weasley too. “enchantée,” she said. “your ’usband ’as been telling us such amusing stories!” mr. weasley gave a maniacal laugh; mrs. weasley threw him a look, upon which he became immediately silent and assumed an expression appropriate to the sickbed of a close friend. “and, of course, you ’ave met my leetle daughter, Gabrielle_Delacour!” said monsieur delacour. Gabrielle_Delacour was Fleur_Delacour in miniature; eleven years old, with waist-length hair of pure, silvery blonde, she gave mrs. weasley a dazzling smile and hugged her, then threw Harry_Potter a glowing look, batting her eyelashes. Ginevra_Weasley cleared her throat loudly. “well, come in, do!” said mrs. weasley brightly, and she ushered the delacours into the house, with many “no, please!”s and “after you!”s and “not at all!”s. the delacours, it soon transpired, were helpful, pleasant guests. they were pleased with everything and keen to assist with the preparations for the wedding. monsieur delacour pronounced everything from the seating plan to the bridesmaids’ shoes “charmant!” madame delacour was most accomplished at household spells and had the oven properly cleaned in a trice; Gabrielle_Delacour followed her elder sister around, trying to assist in any way she could and jabbering away in rapid french. on the downside, the burrow was not built to accommodate so many people. mr. and mrs. weasley were now sleeping in the sitting room, having shouted down monsieur and madame delacour’s protests and insisted they take their bedroom. Gabrielle_Delacour was sleeping with Fleur_Delacour in Percy_Weasley’s old room, and William_Weasley would be sharing with Charles_Weasley, his best man, once Charles_Weasley arrived from romania. opportunities to make plans together became virtually nonexistent, and it was in desperation that Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger took to volunteering to feed the chickens just to escape the overcrowded house. “but she still won’t leave us alone!” snarled Ronald_Weasley as their second attempt at a meeting in the yard was foiled by the appearance of mrs. weasley carrying a large basket of laundry in her arms. “oh, good, you’ve fed the chickens,” she called as she approached them. “we’d better shut them away again before the men arrive tomorrow … to put up the tent for the wedding,” she explained, pausing to lean against the henhouse. she looked exhausted. “millamant’s magic marquees … they’re very good, bill’s escorting them. … you’d better stay inside while they’re here, Harry_Potter. i must say it does complicate organizing a wedding, having all these security spells around the place.” “i’m sorry,” said Harry_Potter humbly. “oh, don’t be silly, dear!” said mrs. weasley at once. “i didn’t mean — well, your safety’s much more important! actually, i’ve been wanting to ask you how you want to celebrate your birthday, Harry_Potter. seventeen, after all, it’s an important day. …” “i don’t want a fuss,” said Harry_Potter quickly, envisaging the additional strain this would put on them all. “really, mrs. weasley, just a normal dinner would be fine. … it’s the day before the wedding. …” “oh, well, if you’re sure, dear. i’ll invite Remus_Lupin and Nymphadora_Tonks, shall i? and how about Rubeus_Hagrid?” “that’d be great,” said Harry_Potter. “but please don’t go to loads of trouble.” “not at all, not at all … it’s no trouble. …” she looked at him, a long, searching look, then smiled a little sadly, straightened up, and walked away. Harry_Potter watched as she waved her wand near the washing line, and the damp clothes rose into the air to hang themselves up, and suddenly he felt a great wave of remorse for the inconvenience and the pain he was giving her. 