chapter 28 the missing mirror Harry_Potter’s feet touched road. he saw the achingly familiar hogsmeade high street: dark shop fronts, and the outline of black mountains beyond the village, and the curve in the road ahead that led off toward hogwarts, and light spilling from the windows of the three broomsticks, and with a lurch of the heart he remembered, with piercing accuracy, how he had landed here nearly a year before, supporting a desperately weak Albus_Dumbledore; all this in a second, upon landing — and then, even as he relaxed his grip upon ron’s and Hermione_Granger’s arms, it happened. the air was rent by a scream that sounded like voldemort’s when he had realized the cup had been stolen: it tore at every nerve in Harry_Potter’s body, and he knew immediately that their appearance had caused it. even as he looked at the other two beneath the cloak, the door of the three broomsticks burst open and a dozen cloaked and hooded death eaters dashed into the street, their wands aloft. Harry_Potter seized ron’s wrist as he raised his wand; there were too many of them to stun: even attempting it would give away their position. one of the death eaters waved his wand and the scream stopped, still echoing around the distant mountains. “accio cloak!” roared one of the death eaters. Harry_Potter seized its folds, but it made no attempt to escape: the summoning charm had not worked on it. “not under your wrapper, then, potter?” yelled the death eater who had tried the charm, and then to his fellows, “spread out. he’s here.” six of the death eaters ran toward them: Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger backed as quickly as possible down the nearest side street, and the death eaters missed them by inches. they waited in the darkness, listening to the footsteps running up and down, beams of light flying along the street from the death eaters’ searching wands. “let’s just leave!” Hermione_Granger whispered. “disapparate now!” “great idea,” said Ronald_Weasley but before Harry_Potter could reply a death eater shouted, “we know you’re here, potter, and there’s no getting away! we’ll find you!” “they were ready for us,” whispered Harry_Potter. “they set up that spell to tell them we’d come. i reckon they’ve done something to keep us here, trap us —” “what about dementors?” called another death eater. “let ’em have free rein, they’d find him quick enough!” “the dark lord wants potter dead by no hand but his —” “— an’ dementors won’t kill him! the dark lord wants potter’s life, not his soul. he’ll be easier to kill if he’s been kissed first!” there were noises of agreement. dread filled Harry_Potter: to repel dementors they would have to produce patronuses, which would give them away immediately. “we’re going to have to try to disapparate, Harry_Potter!” Hermione_Granger whispered. even as she said it, he felt the unnatural cold begin to steal over the street. light was sucked from the environment right up to the stars, which vanished. in the pitch-blackness, he felt Hermione_Granger take hold of his arm and together, they turned on the spot. the air through which they needed to move seemed to have become solid: they could not disapparate; the death eaters had cast their charms well. the cold was biting deeper and deeper into Harry_Potter’s flesh. he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger retreated down the side street, groping their way along the wall, trying not to make a sound. then, around the corner, gliding noiselessly, came dementors, ten or more of them, visible because they were of a denser darkness than their surroundings, with their black cloaks and their scabbed and rotting hands. could they sense fear in the vicinity? Harry_Potter was sure of it: they seemed to be coming more quickly now, taking those dragging, rattling breaths he detested, tasting despair on the air, closing in — he raised his wand: he could not, would not, suffer the dementor’s kiss, whatever happened afterward. it was of Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger that he thought as he whispered, “expecto patronum!” the silver stag burst from his wand and charged: the dementors scattered and there was a triumphant yell from somewhere out of sight. “it’s him, down there, down there, i saw his patronus, it was a stag! the dementors had retreated, the stars were popping out again, and the footsteps of the death eaters were becoming louder; but before Harry_Potter in his panic could decide what to do, there was a grinding of bolts nearby, a door opened on the left-hand side of the narrow street, and a rough voice said, “potter, in here, quick!” he obeyed without hesitation: the three of them hurtled through the open doorway. “upstairs, keep the cloak on, keep quiet!” muttered a tall figure, passing them on his way into the street and slamming the door behind him. Harry_Potter had had no idea where they were, but now he saw, by the stuttering light of a single candle, the grubby, sawdust-strewn bar of the hog’s head inn. they ran behind the counter and through a second doorway, which led to a rickety wooden staircase that they climbed as fast as they could. the stairs opened onto a sitting room with a threadbare carpet and a small fireplace, above which hung a single large oil painting of a blonde girl who gazed out at the room with a kind of vacant sweetness. shouts reached them from the street below. still wearing the invisibility cloak, they crept toward the grimy window and looked down. their savior, whom Harry_Potter now recognized as the hog’s head’s barman, was the only person not wearing a hood. “so what?” he was bellowing into one of the hooded faces. “so what? you send dementors down my street, i’ll send a patronus back at ’em! i’m not having ’em near me, i’ve told you that, i’m not having it!” “that wasn’t your patronus!” said a death eater. “that was a stag, it was potter’s!” “stag!” roared the barman, and he pulled out a wand. “stag! you idiot — expecto patronum!” something huge and horned erupted from the wand: head down, it charged toward the high street and out of sight. “that’s not what i saw —” said the death eater, though with less certainty. “curfew’s been broken, you heard the noise,” one of his companions told the barman. “someone was out in the street against regulations —” “if i want to put my cat out, i will, and be damned to your curfew!” “you set off the caterwauling charm?” “what if i did? going to cart me off to azkaban? kill me for sticking my nose out my own front door? do it, then, if you want to! but i Hope_Howell for your sakes you haven’t pressed your little dark marks and summoned him. he’s not going to like being called here for me and my old cat, is he, now?” “don’t you worry about us,” said one of the death eaters, “worry about yourself, breaking curfew!” “and where will you lot traffick potions and poisons when my pub’s closed down? what’ll happen to your little sidelines then?” “are you threatening — ?” “i keep my mouth shut, it’s why you come here, isn’t it?” “i still say i saw a stag patronus!” shouted the first death eater. “stag?” roared the barman. “it’s a goat, idiot!” “all right, we made a mistake,” said the second death eater. “break curfew again and we won’t be so lenient!” the death eaters strode back toward the high street. Hermione_Granger moaned with relief, wove out from under the cloak, and sat down on a wobble- legged chair. Harry_Potter drew the curtains tight shut, then pulled the cloak off himself and Ronald_Weasley they could hear the barman down below, rebolting the door of the bar, then climbing the stairs. Harry_Potter’s attention was caught by something on the mantelpiece: a small, rectangular mirror propped on top of it, right beneath the portrait of the girl. the barman entered the room. “you Bloody_Baron fools,” he said gruffly, looking from one to the other of them. “what were you thinking, coming here?” “thank you,” said Harry_Potter. “we can’t thank you enough. you saved our lives.” the barman grunted. Harry_Potter approached him, looking up into the face, trying to see past the long, stringy, wire-gray hair and beard. he wore spectacles. behind the dirty lenses, the eyes were a piercing, brilliant blue. “it’s your eye i’ve been seeing in the mirror.” there was silence in the room. Harry_Potter and the barman looked at each other. “you sent Dobby.” the barman nodded and looked around for the elf. “thought he’d be with you. where’ve you left him?” “he’s dead,” said Harry_Potter. “Bellatrix_Lestrange killed him.” the barman’s face was impassive. after a few moments he said, “i’m sorry to hear it. i liked that elf.” he turned away, lighting lamps with prods of his wand, not looking at any of them. “you’re Aberforth_Dumbledore,” said Harry_Potter to the man’s back. he neither confirmed nor denied it, but bent to light the fire. “how did you get this?” Harry_Potter asked, walking across to Sirius_Black’s mirror, the twin of the one he had broken nearly two years before. “bought it from Mundungus_Fletcher ’bout a year ago,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “Albus_Potter told me what it was. been trying to keep an eye out for you.” Ronald_Weasley gasped. “the silver doe!” he said excitedly. “was that you too?” “what are you talking about?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “someone sent a doe patronus to us!” “brains like that, you could be a death eater, son. haven’t i just proved my patronus is a goat?” “oh,” said Ronald_Weasley “yeah … well, i’m hungry!” he added defensively as his stomach gave an enormous rumble. “i got food,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore, and he sloped out of the room, reappearing moments later with a large loaf of bread, some cheese, and a pewter jug of mead, which he set upon a small table in front of the fire. ravenous, they ate and drank, and for a while there was silence but for the crackle of the fire, the clink of goblets, and the sound of chewing. “right then,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore when they had eaten their fill, and Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley sat slumped dozily in their chairs. “we need to think of the best way to get you out of here. can’t be done by night, you heard what happens if anyone moves outdoors during darkness: caterwauling charm’s set off, they’ll be onto you like bow-truckles on doxy eggs. i don’t reckon i’ll be able to pass off a stag as a goat a second time. wait for daybreak when curfew lifts, then you can put your cloak back on and set out on foot. get right out of hogsmeade, up into the mountains, and you’ll be able to disapparate there. might see Rubeus_Hagrid. he’s been hiding in a cave up there with Grawp ever since they tried to arrest him.” “we’re not leaving,” said Harry_Potter. “we need to get into hogwarts.” “don’t be stupid, boy,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “we’ve got to,” said Harry_Potter. “what you’ve got to do,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore, leaning forward, “is to get as far from here as you can.” “you don’t understand. there isn’t much time. we’ve got to get into the castle. Albus_Dumbledore — i mean, your brother — wanted us —” the firelight made the grimy lenses of Aberforth_Dumbledore’s glasses momentarily opaque, a bright flat white, and Harry_Potter remembered the blind eyes of the giant spider, Aragog. “my brother Albus_Potter wanted a lot of things,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore, “and people had a habit of getting hurt while he was carrying out his grand plans. you get away from this school, potter, and out of the country if you can. forget my brother and his clever schemes. he’s gone where none of this can hurt him, and you don’t owe him anything.” “you don’t understand,” said Harry_Potter again. “oh, don’t i?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore quietly. “you don’t think i understood my own brother? think you knew Albus_Potter better than i did?” “i didn’t mean that,” said Harry_Potter, whose brain felt sluggish with exhaustion and from the surfeit of food and wine. “it’s … he left me a job.” “did he now?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “nice job, i Hope_Howell? pleasant? easy? sort of thing you’d expect an unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without overstretching themselves?” Ronald_Weasley gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione_Granger was looking strained. “i-it’s not easy, no,” said Harry_Potter. “but i’ve got to —” “ ‘got to’? why ‘got to’? he’s dead, isn’t he?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore roughly. “let it go, boy, before you follow him! save yourself!” “i can’t.” “why not?” “i —” Harry_Potter felt overwhelmed; he could not explain, so he took the offensive instead. “but you’re fighting too, you’re in the order of the phoenix —” “i was,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “the order of the phoenix is finished. you- know-who’s won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves. it’ll never be safe for you here, potter, he wants you too badly. so go abroad, go into hiding, save yourself. best take these two with you.” he jerked a thumb at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “they’ll be in danger long as they live now everyone knows they’ve been working with you.” “i can’t leave,” said Harry_Potter. “i’ve got a job —” “give it to someone else!” “i can’t. it’s got to be me, Albus_Dumbledore explained it all —” “oh, did he now? and did he tell you everything, was he honest with you?” Harry_Potter wanted with all his heart to say “yes,” but somehow the simple word would not rise to his lips. Aberforth_Dumbledore seemed to know what he was thinking. “i knew my brother, potter. he learned secrecy at our mother’s knee. secrets and lies, that’s how we grew up, and Albus_Potter … he was a natural.” the old man’s eyes traveled to the painting of the girl over the mantelpiece. it was, now Harry_Potter looked around properly, the only picture in the room. there was no photograph of Albus_Dumbledore, nor of anyone else. “mr. Albus_Dumbledore?” said Hermione_Granger rather timidly. “is that your sister? ariana?” “yes,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore tersely. “been reading Rita_Skeeter, have you, missy?” even by the rosy light of the fire it was clear that Hermione_Granger had turned red. “Elphias_Doge mentioned her to us,” said Harry_Potter, trying to spare Hermione_Granger. “that old berk,” muttered Aberforth_Dumbledore, taking another swig of mead. “thought the sun shone out of my brother’s every orifice, he did. well, so did plenty of people, you three included, by the looks of it.” Harry_Potter kept quiet. he did not want to express the doubts and uncertainties about Albus_Dumbledore that had riddled him for months now. he had made his choice while he dug Dobby’s grave, he had decided to continue along the winding, dangerous path indicated for him by Albus_Dumbledore, to accept that he had not been told everything that he wanted to know, but simply to trust. he had no desire to doubt again; he did not want to hear anything that would deflect him from his purpose. he met Aberforth_Dumbledore’s gaze, which was so strikingly like his brother’s: the bright blue eyes gave the same impression that they were x-raying the object of their scrutiny, and Harry_Potter thought that Aberforth_Dumbledore knew what he was thinking and despised him for it. “professor Albus_Dumbledore cared about Harry_Potter, very much,” said Hermione_Granger in a low voice. “did he now?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “funny thing, how many of the people my brother cared about very much ended up in a worse state than if he’d left ’em well alone.” “what do you mean?” asked Hermione_Granger breathlessly. “never you mind,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “but that’s a really serious thing to say!” said Hermione_Granger. “are you — are you talking about your sister?” Aberforth_Dumbledore glared at her: his lips moved as if he were chewing the words he was holding back. then he burst into speech. “when my sister was six years old, she was attacked, set upon, by three muggle boys. they’d seen her doing magic, spying through the back garden hedge: she was a kid, she couldn’t control it, no witch or wizard can at that age. what they saw scared them, i expect. they forced their way through the hedge, and when she couldn’t show them the trick, they got a bit carried away trying to stop the little freak doing it.” Hermione_Granger’s eyes were huge in the firelight; Ronald_Weasley looked slightly sick. Aberforth_Dumbledore stood up, tall as Albus_Potter, and suddenly terrible in his anger and the intensity of his pain. “it desTroyed her, what they did: she was never right again. she wouldn’t use magic, but she couldn’t get rid of it; it turned inward and drove her mad, it exploded out of her when she couldn’t control it, and at times she was strange and dangerous. but mostly she was sweet and scared and harmless. “and my father went after the bastards that did it,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore, “and attacked them. and they locked him up in azkaban for it. he never said why he’d done it, because if the ministry had known what ariana had become, she’d have been locked up in st. mungo’s for good. they’d have seen her as a serious threat to the international statute of secrecy, unbalanced like she was, with magic exploding out of her at moments when she couldn’t keep it in any longer. “we had to keep her safe and quiet. we moved house, put it about she was ill, and my mother looked after her, and tried to keep her calm and happy. “i was her favorite,” he said, and as he said it, a grubby schoolboy seemed to look out through Aberforth_Dumbledore’s wrinkles and tangled beard. “not Albus_Potter, he was always up in his bedroom when he was home, reading his books and counting his prizes, keeping up with his correspondence with ‘the most notable magical names of the day,’ ” Aberforth_Dumbledore sneered. “he didn’t want to be bothered with her. she liked me best. i could get her to eat when she wouldn’t do it for my mother, i could get her to calm down when she was in one of her rages, and when she was quiet, she used to help me feed the goats. “then, when she was fourteen … see, i wasn’t there,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “if i’d been there, i could have calmed her down. she had one of her rages, and my mother wasn’t as young as she was, and … it was an accident. ariana couldn’t control it. but my mother was killed.” Harry_Potter felt a horrible mixture of pity and repulsion; he did not want to hear any more, but Aberforth_Dumbledore kept talking, and Harry_Potter wondered how long it had been since he had spoken about this; whether, in fact, he had ever spoken about it. “so that put paid to Albus_Potter’s trip round the world with little doge. the pair of ’em came home for my mother’s funeral and then doge went off on his own, and Albus_Potter settled down as head of the family. ha!” Aberforth_Dumbledore spat into the fire. “i’d have looked after her, i told him so, i didn’t care about school, i’d have stayed home and done it. he told me i had to finish my education and he’d take over from my mother. bit of a comedown for mr. brilliant, there’s no prizes for looking after your half-mad sister, stopping her blowing up the house every other day. but he did all right for a few weeks … till he came.” and now a positively dangerous look crept over Aberforth_Dumbledore’s face. “grindelwald. and at last, my brother had an equal to talk to, someone just as bright and talented as he was. and looking after ariana took a backseat then, while they were hatching all their plans for a new wizarding order, and looking for hallows, and whatever else it was they were so interested in. grand plans for the benefit of all wizardkind, and if one young girl got neglected, what did that matter, when Albus_Potter was working for the greater good? “but after a few weeks of it, i’d had enough, i had. it was nearly time for me to go back to hogwarts, so i told ’em, both of ’em, face-to-face, like i am to you, now,” and Aberforth_Dumbledore looked down at Harry_Potter, and it took little imagination to see him as a teenager, wiry and angry, confronting his elder brother. “i told him, you’d better give it up now. you can’t move her, she’s in no fit state, you can’t take her with you, wherever it is you’re planning to go, when you’re making your clever speeches, trying to whip yourselves up a following. he didn’t like that,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore, and his eyes were briefly occluded by the firelight on the lenses of his glasses: they shone white and blind again. “grindelwald didn’t like that at all. he got angry. he told me what a stupid little boy i was, trying to stand in the way of him and my brilliant brother. … didn’t i understand, my poor sister wouldn’t have to be hidden once they’d changed the world, and led the wizards out of hiding, and taught the muggles their place? “and there was an argument … and i pulled out my wand, and he pulled out his, and i had the cruciatus curse used on me by my brother’s best friend — and Albus_Potter was trying to stop him, and then all three of us were dueling, and the flashing lights and the bangs set her off, she couldn’t stand it —” the color was draining from Aberforth_Dumbledore’s face as though he had suffered a mortal wound. “— and i think she wanted to help, but she didn’t really know what she was doing, and i don’t know which of us did it, it could have been any of us — and she was dead.” his voice broke on the last word and he dropped down into the nearest chair. Hermione_Granger’s face was wet with tears, and Ronald_Weasley was almost as pale as Aberforth_Dumbledore. Harry_Potter felt nothing but revulsion: he wished he had not heard it, wished he could wash his mind clean of it. “i’m so … i’m so sorry,” Hermione_Granger whispered. “gone,” croaked Aberforth_Dumbledore. “gone forever.” he wiped his nose on his cuff and cleared his throat. “ ’course, grindelwald scarpered. he had a bit of a track record already, back in his own country, and he didn’t want ariana set to his account too. and Albus_Potter was free, wasn’t he? free of the burden of his sister, free to become the greatest wizard of the —” “he was never free,” said Harry_Potter. “i beg your pardon?” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “never,” said Harry_Potter. “the night that your brother died, he drank a potion that drove him out of his mind. he started screaming, pleading with someone who wasn’t there. ‘don’t hurt them, please … hurt me instead.’ ” Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were staring at Harry_Potter. he had never gone into details about what had happened on the island on the lake: the events that had taken place after he and Albus_Dumbledore had returned to hogwarts had eclipsed it so thoroughly. “he thought he was back there with you and grindelwald, i know he did,” said Harry_Potter, remembering Albus_Dumbledore whimpering, pleading. “he thought he was watching grindelwald hurting you and ariana. … it was torture to him, if you’d seen him then, you wouldn’t say he was free.” Aberforth_Dumbledore seemed lost in contemplation of his own kNotted and veined hands. after a long pause he said, “how can you be sure, potter, that my brother wasn’t more interested in the greater good than in you? how can you be sure you aren’t dispensable, just like my little sister?” a shard of ice seemed to pierce Harry_Potter’s heart. “i don’t believe it. Albus_Dumbledore loved Harry_Potter,” said Hermione_Granger. “why didn’t he tell him to hide, then?” shot back Aberforth_Dumbledore. “why didn’t he say to him, ‘take care of yourself, here’s how to survive’?” “because,” said Harry_Potter before Hermione_Granger could answer, “sometimes you’ve got to think about more than your own safety! sometimes you’ve got to think about the greater good! this is war!” “you’re seventeen, boy!” “i’m of age, and i’m going to keep fighting even if you’ve given up!” “who says i’ve given up?” “ ‘the order of the phoenix is finished,’ ” Harry_Potter repeated. “ ‘you-know- who’s won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves.’ ” “i don’t say i like it, but it’s the truth!” “no, it isn’t,” said Harry_Potter. “your brother knew how to finish you-know- who and he passed the knowledge on to me. i’m going to keep going until i succeed — or i die. don’t think i don’t know how this might end. i’ve known it for years.” he waited for Aberforth_Dumbledore to jeer or to argue, but he did not. he merely scowled. “we need to get into hogwarts,” said Harry_Potter again. “if you can’t help us, we’ll wait till daybreak, leave you in peace, and try to find a way in ourselves. if you can help us — well, now would be a great time to mention it.” Aberforth_Dumbledore remained fixed in his chair, gazing at Harry_Potter with the eyes that were so extraordinarily like his brother’s. at last he cleared his throat, got to his feet, walked around the little table, and approached the portrait of ariana. “you know what to do,” he said. she smiled, turned, and walked away, not as people in portraits usually did, out of the sides of their frames, but along what seemed to be a long tunnel painted behind her. they watched her slight figure retreating until finally she was swallowed by the darkness. “er — what — ?” began Ronald_Weasley “there’s only one way in now,” said Aberforth_Dumbledore. “you must know they’ve got all the old secret passageways covered at both ends, dementors all around the boundary walls, regular patrols inside the school from what my sources tell me. the place has never been so heavily guarded. how you expect to do anything once you get inside it, with snape in charge and Alecto_Carrow and Amycus_Carrow as his deputies … well, that’s your lookout, isn’t it? you say you’re prepared to die.” “but what … ?” said Hermione_Granger, frowning at ariana’s picture. a tiny white Dot had reappeared at the end of the painted tunnel, and now ariana was walking back toward them, growing bigger and bigger as she came. but there was somebody else with her now, someone taller than she was, who was limping along, looking excited. his hair was longer than Harry_Potter had ever seen it: he appeared to have suffered several gashes to his face and his clothes were ripped and torn. larger and larger the two figures grew, until only their heads and shoulders filled the portrait. then the whole thing swung forward on the wall like a little door, and the entrance to a real tunnel was revealed. and out of it, his hair overgrown, his face cut, his robes ripped, clambered the real Neville_Longbottom, who gave a roar of delight, leapt down from the mantelpiece, and yelled, “i knew you’d come! i knew it, Harry_Potter!” 