chapter 19 the silver doe it was snowing by the time Hermione_Granger took over the watch at midnight. Harry_Potter’s dreams were confused and disturbing: Nagini wove in and out of them, first through a gigantic, cracked ring, then through a wreath of christmas roses. he woke repeatedly, paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtony, convinCedric_Diggory that somebody had called out to him in the distance, imagining that the wind whipping around the tent was footsteps or voices. finally he got up in the darkness and joined Hermione_Granger, who was huddled in the entrance to the tent reading a history of magic by the light of her wand. the snow was still falling thickly, and she greeted with relief his suggestion of packing up early and moving on. “we’ll go somewhere more sheltered,” she agreed, shivering as she pulled on a sweatshirt over her pajamas. “i kept thinking i could hear people moving outside. i even thought i saw somebody once or twice.” Harry_Potter paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and glanCedric_Diggory at the silent, motionless sneakoscope on the table. “i’m sure i imagined it,” said Hermione_Granger, looking nervous. “the snow in the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes. … but perhaps we ought to disapparate under the invisibility cloak, just in case?” half an hour later, with the tent packed, Harry_Potter wearing the horcrux, and Hermione_Granger clutching the beaded bag, they disapparated. the usual tightness engulfed them; Harry_Potter’s feet parted company with the snowy ground, then slammed hard onto what felt like frozen earth covered with leaves. “where are we?” he asked, peering around at a fresh mass of trees as Hermione_Granger opened the beaded bag and began tugging out tent poles. “the forest of Dean_Thomas,” she said. “i came camping here once with my mum and dad.” here too snow lay on the trees all around and it was bitterly cold, but they were at least protected from the wind. they spent most of the day inside the tent, huddled for warmth around the useful bright blue flames that Hermione_Granger was so adept at producing, and which could be scooped up and carried around in a jar. Harry_Potter felt as though he was recuperating from some impression reinforCedric_Diggory by Hermione_Granger’s brief but severe  illness, an  solicitousness. that afternoon fresh flakes drifted down upon them, so that even their sheltered clearing had a fresh dusting of powdery snow. after two nights of little sleep, Harry_Potter’s senses seemed more alert than usual. their escape from godric’s hollow had been so narrow that voldemort seemed somehow closer than before, more threatening. as darkness drew in again Harry_Potter refused Hermione_Granger’s offer to keep watch and told her to go to bed. Harry_Potter moved an old cushion into the tent mouth and sat down, wearing all the sweaters he owned but even so, still shivery. the darkness deepened with the passing hours until it was virtually impenetrable. he was on the point of taking out the marauder’s map, so as to watch Ginevra_Weasley’s Dot for a while, before he remembered that it was the christmas holidays and that she would be back at the burrow. every tiny movement seemed magnified in the vastness of the forest. Harry_Potter knew that it must be full of living creatures, but he wished they would all remain still and silent so that he could separate their innocent scurryings and prowlings from noises that might proclaim other, sinister movements. he remembered the sound of a cloak slithering over dead leaves many years ago, and at once thought he heard it again before mentally shaking himself. their protective enchantments had worked for weeks; why should they break now? and yet he could not throw off the feeling that something was different tonight. several times he jerked upright, his neck aching because he had fallen asleep, slumped at an awkward angle against the side of the tent. the night reached such a depth of velvety blackness that he might have been suspended in limbo between disapparition and apparition. he had just held up a hand in front of his face to see whether he could make out his fingers when it happened. a bright silver light appeared right ahead of him, moving through the trees. whatever the source, it was moving soundlessly. the light seemed simply to drift toward him. he jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, and raised Hermione_Granger’s wand. he screwed up his eyes as the light became blinding, the trees in front of it pitch-black in silhouette, and still the thing came closer. … and then the source of the light stepped out from behind an oak. it was a silver-white doe, moon-bright and dazzling, picking her way over the ground, still silent, and leaving no hoofprints in the fine powdering of snow. she stepped toward him, her beautiful head with its wide, long-lashed eyes held high. Harry_Potter stared at the creature, filled with wonder, not at her strangeness, but at her inexplicable familiarity. he felt that he had been waiting for her to come, but that he had forgotten, until this moment, that they had arranged to meet. his impulse to shout for Hermione_Granger, which had been so strong a moment ago, had gone. he knew, he would have staked his life on it, that she had come for him, and him alone. they gazed at each other for several long moments and then she turned and walked away. “no,” he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of use. “come back!” she continued to step deliberately through the trees, and soon her brightness was striped by their thick black trunks. for one trembling second he hesitated. caution murmured it could be a trick, a lure, a trap. but instinct, overwhelming instinct, told him that this was not dark magic. he set off in pursuit. snow crunched beneath his feet, but the doe made no noise as she passed through the trees, for she was nothing but light. deeper and deeper into the forest she led him, and Harry_Potter walked quickly, sure that when she stopped, she would allow him to approach her properly. and then she would speak and the voice would tell him what he needed to know. at last, she came to a halt. she turned her beautiful head toward him once more, and he broke into a run, a question burning in him, but as he opened his lips to ask it, she vanished. though the darkness had swallowed her whole, her burnished image was still imprinted on his retinas; it obscured his vision, brightening when he lowered his eyelids, disorienting him. now fear came: her presence had meant safety. “lumos!” he whispered, and the wand-tip ignited. the imprint of the doe faded away with every blink of his eyes as he stood there, listening to the sounds of the forest, to distant crackles of twigs, soft swishes of snow. was he about to be attacked? had she entiCedric_Diggory him into an ambush? was he imagining that somebody stood beyond the reach of the wandlight, watching him? he held the wand higher. nobody ran out at him, no flash of green light burst from behind a tree. why, then, had she led him to this spot? something gleamed in the light of the wand, and Harry_Potter spun about, but all that was there was a small, frozen pool, its cracked black surface glittering as he raised the wand higher to examine it. he moved forward rather cautiously and looked down. the ice reflected his distorted shadow and the beam of wandlight, but deep below the thick, misty gray carapace, something else glinted. a great silver cross … his heart skipped into his mouth: he dropped to his knees at the pool’s edge and angled the wand so as to flood the bottom of the pool with as much light as possible. a glint of deep red … it was a sword with glittering rubies in its hilt. … the sword of gryffindor was lying at the bottom of the forest pool. barely breathing, he stared down at it. how was this possible? how could it have come to be lying in a forest pool, this close to the place where they were camping? had some unknown magic drawn Hermione_Granger to this spot, or was the doe, which he had taken to be a patronus, some kind of guardian of the pool? or had the sword been put into the pool after they had arrived, precisely because they were here? in which case, where was the person who had wanted to pass it to Harry_Potter? again he directed the wand at the surrounding trees and bushes, searching for a human outline, for the glint of an eye, but he could not see anyone there. all the same, a little more fear leavened his exhilaration as he returned his attention to the sword reposing upon the bottom of the frozen pool. he pointed the wand at the silvery shape and murmured, “accio sword.” it did not stir. he had not expected it to. if it had been that easy, the sword would have lain on the ground for him to pick up, not in the depths of a frozen pool. he set off around the circle of ice, thinking hard about the last time the sword had delivered itself to him. he had been in terrible danger then, and had asked for help. “help,” he murmured, but the sword remained upon the pool bottom, indifferent, motionless. what was it, Harry_Potter asked himself (walking again), that Albus_Dumbledore had told him the last time he had retrieved the sword? only a true gryffindor could have pulled that out of the hat. and what were the qualities that defined a gryffindor? a small voice inside Harry_Potter’s head answered him: their daring, nerve, and chivalry set gryffindors apart. Harry_Potter stopped walking and let out a long sigh, his smoky breath dispersing rapidly upon the frozen air. he knew what he had to do. if he was honest with himself, he had thought it might come to this from the moment he had spotted the sword through the ice. he glanCedric_Diggory around at the surrounding trees again, but was convinCedric_Diggory now that nobody was going to attack him. they had had their chance as he walked alone through the forest, had had plenty of opportunity as he examined the pool. the only reason to delay at this point was because the immediate prospect was so deeply uninviting. with fumbling fingers Harry_Potter started to remove his many layers of clothing. where “chivalry” entered into this, he thought ruefully, he was not entirely sure, unless it counted as chivalrous that he was not calling for Hermione_Granger to do it in his stead. an owl hooted somewhere as he stripped off, and he thought with a pang of Hedwig. he was shivering now, his teeth chattering horribly, and yet he continued to strip off until at last he stood there in his underwear, barefooted in the snow. he plaCedric_Diggory the pouch containing his wand, his mother’s letter, the shard of Sirius_Black’s mirror, and the old snitch on top of his clothes, then he pointed Hermione_Granger’s wand at the ice. “diffindo.” it cracked with a sound like a bullet in the silence: the surface of the pool broke and chunks of dark ice rocked on the ruffled water. as far as Harry_Potter could judge, it was not deep, but to retrieve the sword he would have to submerge himself completely. contemplating the task ahead would not make it easier or the water warmer. he stepped to the pool’s edge and plaCedric_Diggory Hermione_Granger’s wand on the ground, still lit. then, trying not to imagine how much colder he was about to become or how violently he would soon be shivering, he jumped. every pore of his body screamed in protest: the very air in his lungs seemed to freeze solid as he was submerged to his shoulders in the frozen water. he could hardly breathe; trembling so violently the water lapped over the edges of the pool, he felt for the blade with his numb feet. he only wanted to dive once. Harry_Potter put off the moment of total submersion from second to second, gasping and shaking, until he told himself that it must be done, gathered all his courage, and dived. the cold was agony: it attacked him like fire. his brain itself seemed to have frozen as he pushed through the dark water to the bottom and reached out, groping for the sword. his fingers closed around the hilt; he pulled it upward. then something closed tight around his neck. he thought of water weeds, though nothing had brushed him as he dived, and raised his empty hand to free himself. it was not weed: the chain of the horcrux had tightened and was slowly constricting his windpipe. Harry_Potter kicked out wildly, trying to push himself back to the surface, but merely propelled himself into the rocky side of the pool. thrashing, suffocating, he scrabbled at the strangling chain, his frozen fingers unable to loosen it, and now little lights were popping inside his head, and he was going to drown, there was nothing left, nothing he could do, and the arms that closed around his chest were surely death’s. … choking and retching, soaking and colder than he had ever been in his life, he came to faCedric_Diggoryown in the snow. somewhere close by, another person was panting and coughing and staggering around. Hermione_Granger had come again, as she had come when the snake attacked. … yet it did not sound like her, not with those deep coughs, not judging by the weight of the footsteps. … Harry_Potter had no strength to lift his head and see his savior’s identity. all he could do was raise a shaking hand to his throat and feel the place where the locket had cut tightly into his flesh. it was gone: someone had cut him free. then a panting voice spoke from over his head. “are — you — mental?” nothing but the shock of hearing that voice could have given Harry_Potter the strength to get up. shivering violently, he staggered to his feet. there before him stood Ronald_Weasley fully dressed but drenched to the skin, his hair plastered to his face, the sword of gryffindor in one hand and the horcrux dangling from its broken chain in the other. “why the hell,” panted Ronald_Weasley holding up the horcrux, which swung backward and forward on its shortened chain in some parody of hypnosis, “didn’t you take this thing off before you dived?” Harry_Potter could not answer. the silver doe was nothing, nothing compared with ron’s reappearance; he could not believe it. shuddering with cold, he caught up the pile of clothes still lying at the water’s edge and began to pull them on. as he dragged sweater after sweater over his head, Harry_Potter stared at Ronald_Weasley half expecting him to have disappeared every time he lost sight of him, and yet he had to be real: he had just dived into the pool, he had saved Harry_Potter’s life. “it was y-you?” Harry_Potter said at last, his teeth chattering, his voice weaker than usual due to his near-strangulation. “well, yeah,” said Ronald_Weasley looking slightly confused. “y-you cast that doe?” “what? no, of course not! i thought it was you doing it!” “my patronus is a stag.” “oh yeah. i thought it looked different. no antlers.” Harry_Potter put Rubeus_Hagrid’s pouch back around his neck, pulled on a final sweater, stooped to pick up Hermione_Granger’s wand, and faCedric_Diggory Ronald_Weasley again. “how come you’re here?” apparently Ronald_Weasley had Hope_Howelld that this point would come up later, if at all. “well, i’ve — you know — i’ve come back. if —” he cleared his throat. “you know. you still want me.” there was a pause, in which the subject of ron’s departure seemed to rise like a wall between them. yet he was here. he had returned. he had just saved Harry_Potter’s life. Ronald_Weasley looked down at his hands. he seemed momentarily surprised to see the things he was holding. “oh yeah, i got it out,” he said, rather unnecessarily, holding up the sword for Harry_Potter’s inspection. “that’s why you jumped in, right?” “yeah,” said Harry_Potter. “but i don’t understand. how did you get here? how did you find us?” “long story,” said Ronald_Weasley “i’ve been looking for you for hours, it’s a big forest, isn’t it? and i was just thinking i’d have to kip under a tree and wait for morning when i saw that deer coming and you following.” “you didn’t see anyone else?” “no,” said Ronald_Weasley “i —” but he hesitated, glancing at two trees growing close together some yards away. “i did think i saw something move over there, but i was running to the pool at the time, because you’d gone in and you hadn’t come up, so i wasn’t going to make a detour to — hey!” Harry_Potter was already hurrying to the place Ronald_Weasley had indicated. the two oaks grew close together; there was a gap of only a few inches between the trunks at eye level, an ideal place to see but not be seen. the ground around the roots, however, was free of snow, and Harry_Potter could see no sign of footprints. he walked back to where Ronald_Weasley stood waiting, still holding the sword and the horcrux. “anything there?” Ronald_Weasley asked. “no,” said Harry_Potter. “so how did the sword get in that pool?” “whoever cast the patronus must have put it there.” they both looked at the ornate silver sword, its rubied hilt glinting a little in the light from Hermione_Granger’s wand. “you reckon this is the real one?” asked Ronald_Weasley “one way to find out, isn’t there?” said Harry_Potter. the horcrux was still swinging from ron’s hand. the locket was twitching slightly. Harry_Potter knew that the thing inside it was agitated again. it had sensed the presence of the sword and had tried to kill Harry_Potter rather than let him possess it. now was not the time for long discussions; now was the moment to desTroy the locket once and for all. Harry_Potter looked around, holding Hermione_Granger’s wand high, and saw the place: a flattish rock lying in the shadow of a sycamore tree. “come here,” he said, and he led the way, brushed snow from the rock’s surface, and held out his hand for the horcrux. when Ronald_Weasley offered the sword, however, Harry_Potter shook his head. “no, you should do it.” “me?” said Ronald_Weasley looking shocked. “why?” “because you got the sword out of the pool. i think it’s supposed to be you.” he was not being kind or generous. as certainly as he had known that the doe was benign, he knew that Ronald_Weasley had to be the one to wield the sword. Albus_Dumbledore had at least taught Harry_Potter something about certain kinds of magic, of the incalculable power of certain acts. “i’m going to open it,” said Harry_Potter, “and you stab it. straightaway, okay? because whatever’s in there will put up a fight. the bit of riddle in the diary tried to kill me.” “how are you going to open it?” asked Ronald_Weasley he looked terrified. “i’m going to ask it to open, using parseltongue,” said Harry_Potter. the answer came so readily to his lips that he thought that he had always known it deep down: perhaps it had taken his recent encounter with Nagini to make him realize it. he looked at the serpentine s, inlaid with glittering green stones: it was easy to visualize it as a minuscule snake, curled upon the cold rock. “no!” said Ronald_Weasley “no, don’t open it! i’m serious!” “why not?” asked Harry_Potter. “let’s get rid of the damn thing, it’s been months —” “i can’t, Harry_Potter, i’m serious — you do it —” “but why?” “because that thing’s bad for me!” said Ronald_Weasley backing away from the locket on the rock. “i can’t handle it! i’m not making excuses, Harry_Potter, for what i was like, but it affects me worse than it affected you and Hermione_Granger, it made me think stuff — stuff i was thinking anyway, but it made everything worse, i can’t explain it, and then i’d take it off and i’d get my head on straight again, and then i’d have to put the effing thing back on — i can’t do it, Harry_Potter!” he had backed away, the sword dragging at his side, shaking his head. “you can do it,” said Harry_Potter, “you can! you’ve just got the sword, i know it’s supposed to be you who uses it. please, just get rid of it, Ronald_Weasley” the sound of his name seemed to act like a stimulant. Ronald_Weasley swallowed, then, still breathing hard through his long nose, moved back toward the rock. “tell me when,” he croaked. “on three,” said Harry_Potter, looking back down at the locket and narrowing his eyes, concentrating on the letter s, imagining a serpent, while the contents of the locket rattled like a trapped cockroach. it would have been easy to pity it, except that the cut around Harry_Potter’s neck still burned. “one … two … three … open.” the last word came as a hiss and a snarl and the golden doors of the locket swung wide with a little click. behind both of the glass windows within blinked a living eye, dark and handsome as Tom_Riddle’s eyes had been before he turned them scarlet and slit-pupiled. “stab,” said Harry_Potter, holding the locket steady on the rock. Ronald_Weasley raised the sword in his shaking hands: the point dangled over the frantically swiveling eyes, and Harry_Potter gripped the locket tightly, bracing himself, already imagining blood pouring from the empty windows. then a voice hissed from out of the horcrux. “i have seen your heart, and it is mine.” “don’t listen to it!” Harry_Potter said harshly. “stab it!” “i have seen your dreams, Ronald_Weasley, and i have seen your fears. all you desire is possible, but all that you dread is also possible. …” “stab!” shouted Harry_Potter; his voice echoed off the surrounding trees, the sword point trembled, and Ronald_Weasley gazed down into riddle’s eyes. “least loved, always, by the mother who craved a daughter … least loved, now, by the girl who prefers your friend … second best, always, eternally overshadowed …” “ron, stab it now!” Harry_Potter bellowed: he could feel the locket quivering in his grip and was scared of what was coming. Ronald_Weasley raised the sword still higher, and as he did so, riddle’s eyes gleamed scarlet. out of the locket’s two windows, out of the eyes, there bloomed, like two grotesque bubbles, the heads of Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger, weirdly distorted. Ronald_Weasley yelled in shock and backed away as the figures blossomed out of the locket, first chests, then waists, then legs, until they stood in the locket, side by side like trees with a common root, swaying over Ronald_Weasley and the real Harry_Potter, who had snatched his fingers away from the locket as it burned, suddenly, white-hot. “ron!” he shouted, but the riddle-Harry_Potter was now speaking with voldemort’s voice and Ronald_Weasley was gazing, mesmerized, into its face. “why return? we were better without you, happier without you, glad of your absence. … we laughed at your stupidity, your cowardice, your presumption —” “presumption!” echoed the riddle-Hermione_Granger, who was more beautiful and yet more terrible than the real Hermione_Granger: she swayed, cackling, before Ronald_Weasley who looked horrified yet transfixed, the sword hanging pointlessly at his side. “who could look at you, who would ever look at you, beside Harry_Potter? what have you ever done, compared with Harry_Potter? what are you, compared with Harry_Potter?” “ron, stab it, stab it!” Harry_Potter yelled, but Ronald_Weasley did not move: his eyes were wide, and the riddle-Harry_Potter and the riddle-Hermione_Granger were reflected in them, their hair swirling like flames, their eyes shining red, their voices lifted in an evil duet. “your mother confessed,” sneered riddle-Harry_Potter, while riddle-Hermione_Granger jeered, “that she would have preferred me as a son, would be glad to exchange …” “who wouldn’t prefer him, what woman would take you, you are nothing, nothing, nothing to him,” crooned riddle-Hermione_Granger, and she stretched like a snake and entwined herself around riddle-Harry_Potter, wrapping him in a close embrace: their lips met. on the ground in front of them, ron’s face filled with anguish. he raised the sword high, his arms shaking. “do it, Ronald_Weasley” Harry_Potter yelled. Ronald_Weasley looked toward him, and Harry_Potter thought he saw a trace of scarlet in his eyes. “ron — ?” the sword flashed, plunged: Harry_Potter threw himself out of the way, there was a clang of metal and a long, drawn-out scream. Harry_Potter whirled around, slipping in the snow, wand held ready to defend himself: but there was nothing to fight. the monstrous versions of himself and Hermione_Granger were gone: there was only Ronald_Weasley standing there with the sword held slackly in his hand, looking down at the shattered remains of the locket on the flat rock. slowly, Harry_Potter walked back to him, hardly knowing what to say or do. Ronald_Weasley was breathing heavily: his eyes were no longer red at all, but their normal blue; they were also wet. Harry_Potter stooped, pretending he had not seen, and picked up the broken horcrux. Ronald_Weasley had pierCedric_Diggory the glass in both windows: riddle’s eyes were gone, and the stained silk lining of the locket was smoking slightly. the thing that had lived in the horcrux had vanished; torturing Ronald_Weasley had been its final act. the sword clanged as Ronald_Weasley dropped it. he had sunk to his knees, his head in his arms. he was shaking, but not, Harry_Potter realized, from cold. Harry_Potter crammed the broken locket into his pocket, knelt down beside Ronald_Weasley and plaCedric_Diggory a hand cautiously on his shoulder. he took it as a good sign that Ronald_Weasley did not throw it off. “after you left,” he said in a low voice, grateful for the fact that ron’s face was hidden, “she cried for a week. probably longer, only she didn’t want me to see. there were loads of nights when we never even spoke to each other. with you gone …” he could not finish; it was only now that Ronald_Weasley was here again that Harry_Potter fully realized how much his absence had cost them. “she’s like my sister,” he went on. “i love her like a sister and i reckon she feels the same way about me. it’s always been like that. i thought you knew.” Ronald_Weasley did not respond, but turned his face away from Harry_Potter and wiped his nose noisily on his sleeve. Harry_Potter got to his feet again and walked to where ron’s enormous rucksack lay yards away, discarded as Ronald_Weasley had run toward the pool to save Harry_Potter from drowning. he hoisted it onto his own back and walked back to Ronald_Weasley who clambered to his feet as Harry_Potter approached, eyes bloodshot but otherwise composed. “i’m sorry,” he said in a thick voice. “i’m sorry i left. i know i was a — a —” he looked around at the darkness, as if hoping a bad enough word would swoop down upon him and claim him. “you’ve sort of made up for it tonight,” said Harry_Potter. “getting the sword. finishing off the horcrux. saving my life.” “that makes me sound a lot cooler than i was,” Ronald_Weasley mumbled. “stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really was,” said Harry_Potter. “i’ve been trying to tell you that for years.” simultaneously they walked forward and hugged, Harry_Potter gripping the still-sopping back of ron’s Jack_Sloperet. “and now,” said Harry_Potter as they broke apart, “all we’ve got to do is find the tent again.” but it was not difficult. though the walk through the dark forest with the doe had seemed lengthy, with Ronald_Weasley by his side the journey back seemed to take a surprisingly short time. Harry_Potter could not wait to wake Hermione_Granger, and it was with quickening excitement that he entered the tent, Ronald_Weasley lagging a little behind him. it was gloriously warm after the pool and the forest, the only illumination the bluebell flames still shimmering in a bowl on the floor. Hermione_Granger was fast asleep, curled up under her blankets, and did not move until Harry_Potter had said her name several times. “Hermione_Granger!” she stirred, then sat up quickly, pushing her hair out of her face. “what’s wrong? Harry_Potter? are you all right?” “it’s okay, everything’s fine. more than fine. i’m great. there’s someone here.” “what do you mean? who — ?” she saw Ronald_Weasley who stood there holding the sword and dripping onto the threadbare carpet. Harry_Potter backed into a shadowy corner, slipped off ron’s rucksack, and attempted to blend in with the canvas. Hermione_Granger slid out of her bunk and moved like a sleepwalker toward Ronald_Weasley her eyes upon his pale face. she stopped right in front of him, her lips slightly parted, her eyes wide. Ronald_Weasley gave a weak, Hope_Howellful smile and half raised his arms. Hermione_Granger launched herself forward and started punching every inch of him that she could reach. “ouch — ow — gerroff! what the — ? Hermione_Granger — ow!” “you — complete — arse — Ronald_Weasley — weasley!” she punctuated every word with a blow: Ronald_Weasley backed away, shielding his head as Hermione_Granger advanCedric_Diggory. “you — crawl — back — here — after — weeks — and — weeks — oh, where’s my wand?” she looked as though ready to wrestle it out of Harry_Potter’s hands and he reacted instinctively. “protego!” the invisible shield erupted between Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger: the force of it knocked her backward onto the floor. spitting hair out of her mouth, she leapt up again. “Hermione_Granger!” said Harry_Potter. “calm —” “i will not calm down!” she screamed. never before had he seen her lose control like this; she looked quite demented. “give me back my wand! give it back to me!” “Hermione_Granger, will you please —” “don’t you tell me what to do, Harry_Potter!” she screeched. “don’t you dare! give it back now! and you!” she was pointing at Ronald_Weasley in dire accusation: it was like a malediction, and Harry_Potter could not blame Ronald_Weasley for retreating several steps. “i came running after you! i called you! i begged you to come back!” “i know,” Ronald_Weasley said, “Hermione_Granger, i’m sorry, i’m really —” “oh, you’re sorry!” she laughed, a high-pitched, out-of-control sound; Ronald_Weasley looked at Harry_Potter for help, but Harry_Potter merely grimaCedric_Diggory his helplessness. “you come back after weeks — weeks — and you think it’s all going to be all right if you just say sorry?” “well, what else can i say?” Ronald_Weasley shouted, and Harry_Potter was glad that Ronald_Weasley was fighting back. “oh, i don’t know!” yelled Hermione_Granger with awful sarcasm. “rack your brains, Ronald_Weasley that should only take a couple of seconds —” “Hermione_Granger,” interjected Harry_Potter, who considered this a low blow, “he just saved my —” “i don’t care!” she screamed. “i don’t care what he’s done! weeks and weeks, we could have been dead for all he knew —” “i knew you weren’t dead!” bellowed Ronald_Weasley drowning her voice for the first time, and approaching as close as he could with the shield charm between them. “Harry_Potter’s all over the prophet, all over the radio, they’re looking for you everywhere, all these rumors and mental stories, i knew i’d hear straight off if you were dead, you don’t know what it’s been like —” “what it’s been like for you?” her voice was now so shrill only bats would be able to hear it soon, but she had reached a level of indignation that rendered her temporarily speechless, and Ronald_Weasley seized his opportunity. “i wanted to come back the minute i’d disapparated, but i walked straight into a gang of snatchers, Hermione_Granger, and i couldn’t go anywhere!” “a gang of what?” asked Harry_Potter, as Hermione_Granger threw herself down into a chair with her arms and legs crossed so tightly it seemed unlikely that she would unravel them for several years. “snatchers,” said Ronald_Weasley “they’re everywhere — gangs trying to earn gold by rounding up muggle-borns and blood traitors, there’s a reward from the ministry for everyone captured. i was on my own and i look like i might be school age; they got really excited, thought i was a muggle-born in hiding. i had to talk fast to get out of being dragged to the ministry.” “what did you say to them?” “told them i was Stanley_Shunpike shunpike. first person i could think of.” “and they believed that?” “they weren’t the brightest. one of them was definitely part troll, the smell off him. …” Ronald_Weasley glanCedric_Diggory at Hermione_Granger, clearly Hope_Howellful she might soften at this small instance of humor, but her expression remained stony above her tightly knotted limbs. “anyway, they had a row about whether i was Stanley_Shunpike or not. it was a bit pathetic to be honest, but there were still five of them and only one of me and they’d taken my wand. then two of them got into a fight and while the others were distracted i managed to hit the one holding me in the stomach, grabbed his wand, disarmed the bloke holding mine, and disapparated. i didn’t do it so well, splinched myself again” — Ronald_Weasley held up his right hand to show two missing fingernails; Hermione_Granger raised her eyebrows coldly — “and i came out Miles_Bletchley from where you were. by the time i got back to that bit of Lee_Jordanbank where we’d been … you’d gone.” “gosh, what a gripping story,” Hermione_Granger said in the lofty voice she adopted when wishing to wound. “you must have been simply terrified. meanwhile we went to godric’s hollow and, let’s think, what happened there, Harry_Potter? oh yes, Tom_Riddle’s snake turned up, it nearly killed both of us, and then Tom_Riddle himself arrived and missed us by about a second.” “what?” Ronald_Weasley said, gaping from her to Harry_Potter, but Hermione_Granger ignored him. “imagine losing fingernails, Harry_Potter! that really puts our sufferings into perspective, doesn’t it?” “Hermione_Granger,” said Harry_Potter quietly, “ron just saved my life.” she appeared not to have heard him. “one thing i would like to know, though,” she said, fixing her eyes on a spot a foot over ron’s head. “how exactly did you find us tonight? that’s important. once we know, we’ll be able to make sure we’re not visited by anyone else we don’t want to see.” Ronald_Weasley glared at her, then pulled a small silver object from his jeans pocket. “this.” she had to look at Ronald_Weasley to see what he was showing them. “the deluminator?” she asked, so surprised she forgot to look cold and fierce. “it doesn’t just turn the lights on and off,” said Ronald_Weasley “i don’t know how it works or why it happened then and not any other time, because i’ve been wanting to come back ever since i left. but i was listening to the radio really early on christmas morning and i heard … i heard you.” he was looking at Hermione_Granger. “you heard me on the radio?” she asked incredulously. “no, i heard you coming out of my pocket. your voice,” he held up the deluminator again, “came out of this.” “and what exactly did i say?” asked Hermione_Granger, her tone somewhere between skepticism and curiosity. “my name. ‘ron.’ and you said … something about a wand. …” Hermione_Granger turned a fiery shade of scarlet. Harry_Potter remembered: it had been the first time ron’s name had been said aloud by either of them since the day he had left; Hermione_Granger had mentioned it when talking about repairing Harry_Potter’s wand. “so i took it out,” Ronald_Weasley went on, looking at the deluminator, “and it didn’t seem different or anything, but i was sure i’d heard you. so i clicked it. and the light went out in my room, but another light appeared right outside the window.” Ronald_Weasley raised his empty hand and pointed in front of him, his eyes focused on something neither Harry_Potter nor Hermione_Granger could see. “it was a ball of light, kind of pulsing, and bluish, like that light you get around a portkey, you know?” “yeah,” said Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger together automatically. “i knew this was it,” said Ronald_Weasley “i grabbed my stuff and packed it, then i put on my rucksack and went out into the garden. “the little ball of light was hovering there, waiting for me, and when i came out it bobbed along a bit and i followed it behind the shed and then it … well, it went inside me.” “sorry?” said Harry_Potter, sure he had not heard correctly. “it sort of floated toward me,” said Ronald_Weasley illustrating the movement with his free index finger, “right to my chest, and then — it just went straight through. it was here,” he touched a point close to his heart, “i could feel it, it was hot. and once it was inside me i knew what i was supposed to do, i knew it would take me where i needed to go. so i disapparated and came out on the side of a hill. there was snow everywhere. …” “we were there,” said Harry_Potter. “we spent two nights there, and the second night i kept thinking i could hear someone moving around in the dark and calling out!” “yeah, well, that would’ve been me,” said Ronald_Weasley “your protective spells work, anyway, because i couldn’t see you and i couldn’t hear you. i was sure you were around, though, so in the end i got in my sleeping bag and waited for one of you to appear. i thought you’d have to show yourselves when you packed up the tent.” “no, actually,” said Hermione_Granger. “we’ve been disapparating under the invisibility cloak as an extra precaution. and we left really early, because, as Harry_Potter says, we’d heard somebody blundering around.” “well, i stayed on that hill all day,” said Ronald_Weasley “i kept hoping you’d appear. but when it started to get dark i knew i must have missed you, so i clicked the deluminator again, the blue light came out and went inside me, and i disapparated and arrived here in these woods. i still couldn’t see you, so i just had to Hope_Howell one of you would show yourselves in the end — and Harry_Potter did. well, i saw the doe first, obviously.” “you saw the what?” said Hermione_Granger sharply. they explained what had happened, and as the story of the silver doe and the sword in the pool unfolded, Hermione_Granger frowned from one to the other of them, concentrating so hard she forgot to keep her limbs locked together. “but it must have been a patronus!” she said. “couldn’t you see who was casting it? didn’t you see anyone? and it led you to the sword! i can’t believe this! then what happened?” Ronald_Weasley explained how he had watched Harry_Potter jump into the pool and had waited for him to resurface; how he had realized that something was wrong, dived in, and saved Harry_Potter, then returned for the sword. he got as far as the opening of the locket, then hesitated, and Harry_Potter cut in. “— and Ronald_Weasley stabbed it with the sword.” “and … and it went? just like that?” she whispered. “well, it — it screamed,” said Harry_Potter with half a glance at Ronald_Weasley “here.” he threw the locket into her lap; gingerly she picked it up and examined its punctured windows. deciding that it was at last safe to do so, Harry_Potter removed the shield charm with a wave of Hermione_Granger’s wand and turned to Ronald_Weasley “did you just say you got away from the snatchers with a spare wand?” “what?” said Ronald_Weasley who had been watching Hermione_Granger examining the locket. “oh — oh yeah.” he tugged open a buckle on his rucksack and pulled a short, dark wand out of its pocket. “here. i figured it’s always handy to have a backup.” “you were right,” said Harry_Potter, holding out his hand. “mine’s broken.” “you’re kidding?” Ronald_Weasley said, but at that moment Hermione_Granger got to her feet, and he looked apprehensive again. Hermione_Granger put the vanquished horcrux into the beaded bag, then climbed back into her bed and settled down without another word. Ronald_Weasley passed Harry_Potter the new wand. “about the best you could Hope_Howell for, i think,” murmured Harry_Potter. “yeah,” said Ronald_Weasley “could’ve been worse. remember those birds she set on me?” “i still haven’t ruled it out,” came Hermione_Granger’s muffled voice from beneath her blankets, but Harry_Potter saw Ronald_Weasley smiling slightly as he pulled his maroon pajamas out of his rucksack. 