chapter 7 the will of Albus_Dumbledore he was walking along a mountain road in the cool blue light of dawn. far below, swathed in mist, was the shadow of a small town. was the man he sought down there, the man he needed so badly he could think of little else, the man who held the answer, the answer to his problem … ? “oi, wake up.” Harry_Potter opened his eyes. he was lying again on the camp bed in ron’s dingy attic room. the sun had not yet risen and the room was still shadowy. Pigwidgeon was asleep with his head under his tiny wing. the scar on Harry_Potter’s forehead was prickling. “you were muttering in your sleep.” “was i?” “yeah. ‘Mykew_Gregorowitch.’ you kept saying ‘Mykew_Gregorowitch.’ ” Harry_Potter was not wearing his glasses; ron’s face appeared slightly blurred. “who’s Mykew_Gregorowitch?” “i dunno, do i? you were the one saying it.” Harry_Potter rubbed his forehead, thinking. he had a vague idea he had heard the name before, but he could not think where. “i think voldemort’s looking for him.” “poor bloke,” said Ronald_Weasley fervently. Harry_Potter sat up, still rubbing his scar, now wide awake. he tried to remember exactly what he had seen in the dream, but all that came back was a mountainous horizon and the outline of the little village cradled in a deep valley. “i think he’s abroad.” “who, Mykew_Gregorowitch?” “voldemort. i think he’s somewhere abroad, looking for Mykew_Gregorowitch. it didn’t look like anywhere in bRita_Skeeterin.” “you reckon you were seeing into his mind again?” Ronald_Weasley sounded worried. “do me a favor and don’t tell Hermione_Granger,” said Harry_Potter. “although how she expects me to stop seeing stuff in my sleep …” he gazed up at little Pigwidgeon’s cage, thinking … why was the name “Mykew_Gregorowitch” familiar? “i think,” he said slowly, “he’s got something to do with quidditch. there’s some connection, but i can’t — i can’t think what it is.” “quidditch?” said Ronald_Weasley “sure you’re not thinking of gorgovitch?” “who?” “dragomir gorgovitch, chaser, transferred to the chudley cannons for a record fee two years ago. record holder for most quaffle drops in a season.” “no,” said Harry_Potter. “i’m definitely not thinking of gorgovitch.” “i try not to either,” said Ronald_Weasley “well, happy birthday anyway.” “wow — that’s right, i forgot! i’m seventeen!” Harry_Potter seized the wand lying beside his camp bed, pointed it at the cluttered desk where he had left his glasses, and said, “accio glasses!” although they were only around a foot away, there was something immensely satisfying about seeing them zoom toward him, at least until they poked him in the eye. “slick,” snorted Ronald_Weasley reveling in the removal of his trace, Harry_Potter sent ron’s possessions flying around the room, causing Pigwidgeon to wake up and flutter excitedly around his cage. Harry_Potter also tried tying the laces of his trainers by magic (the resultant knot took several minutes to untie by hand) and, purely for the pleasure of it, turned the orange robes on ron’s chudley cannons posters bright blue. “i’d do your fly by hand, though,” Ronald_Weasley advised Harry_Potter, sniggering when Harry_Potter immediately checked it. “here’s your present. unwrap it up here, it’s not for my mother’s eyes.” “a book?” said Harry_Potter as he took the rectangular parcel. “bit of a departure from tradition, isn’t it?” “this isn’t your average book,” said Ronald_Weasley “it’s pure gold: twelve fail- safe ways to charm witches. explains everything you need to know about girls. if only i’d had this last year i’d have known exactly how to get rid of Lavender_Brown and i would’ve known how to get going with … well, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley gave me a copy, and i’ve learned a lot. you’d be surprised, it’s not all about wandwork, either.” when they arrived in the kitchen they found a pile of presents waiting on the table. William_Weasley and monsieur delacour were finishing their breakfasts, while mrs. weasley stood chatting to them over the frying pan. “Arthur_Weasley told me to wish you a happy seventeenth, Harry_Potter,” said mrs. weasley, beaming at him. “he had to leave early for work, but he’ll be back for dinner. that’s our present on top.” Harry_Potter sat down, took the square parcel she had indicated, and unwrapped it. inside was a watch very like the one mr. and mrs. weasley had given Ronald_Weasley for his seventeenth; it was gold, with stars circling around the face instead of hands. “it’s traditional to give a wizard a watch when he comes of age,” said mrs. weasley, watching him anxiously from beside the Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maner. “i’m afraid that one isn’t new like ron’s, it was actually my brother fabian’s and he wasn’t terribly careful with his possessions, it’s a bit dented on the back, but —” the rest of her speech was lost; Harry_Potter had got up and hugged her. he tried to put a lot of unsaid things into the hug and perhaps she understood them, because she patted his cheek clumsily when he released her, then waved her wand in a slightly random way, causing half a pack of bacon to flop out of the frying pan onto the floor. “happy birthday, Harry_Potter!” said Hermione_Granger, hurrying into the kitchen and adding her own present to the top of the pile. “it’s not much, but i Hope_Howell you like it. what did you get him?” she added to Ronald_Weasley who seemed not to hear her. “come on, then, open Hermione_Granger’s!” said Ronald_Weasley she had bought him a new sneakoscope. the other packages contained an enchanted razor from William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour (“ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest shave you will ever ’ave,” monsieur delacour assured him, “but you must tell it clearly what you want … ozzerwise you might find you ’ave a leetle less hair zan you would like. …”), chocolates from the delacours, and an enormous box of the latest weasleys’ wizard wheezes merchandise from Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger did not linger at the table, as the arrival of madame delacour, Fleur_Delacour, and Gabrielle_Delacour made the kitchen uncomfortably crowded. “i’ll pack these for you,” Hermione_Granger said brightly, taking Harry_Potter’s presents out of his arms as the three of them headed back upstairs. “i’m nearly done, i’m just waiting for the rest of your underpants to come out of the wash, Ronald_Weasley —” ron’s splutter was interrupted by the opening of a door on the first-floor landing. “Harry_Potter, will you come in here a moment?” it was Ginevra_Weasley. Ronald_Weasley came to an abrupt halt, but Hermione_Granger took him by the elbow and tugged him on up the stairs. feeling nervous, Harry_Potter followed Ginevra_Weasley into her room. he had never been inside it before. it was small, but bright. there was a large poster of the wizarding band the Myron_Wagtail and Donaghan_Tremlett on one wall, and a picture of gwenog jones, captain of the all-witch quidditch team the holyhead harpies, on the other. a desk stood facing the open window, which looked out over the orchard where he and Ginevra_Weasley had once played two-a-side quidditch with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, and which now housed a large, pearly white marquee. the golden flag on top was level with Ginevra_Weasley’s window. Ginevra_Weasley looked up into Harry_Potter’s face, took a deep breath, and said, “happy seventeenth.” “yeah … thanks.” she was looking at him steadily; he, however, found it difficult to look back at her; it was like gazing into a brilliant light. “nice view,” he said feebly, pointing toward the window. she ignored this. he could not blame her. “i couldn’t think what to get you,” she said. “you didn’t have to get me anything.” she disregarded this too. “i didn’t know what would be useful. nothing too big, because you wouldn’t be able to take it with you.” he chanced a glance at her. she was not tearful; that was one of the many wonderful things about Ginevra_Weasley, she was rarely weepy. he had sometimes thought that having six brothers must have toughened her up. she took a step closer to him. “so then i thought, i’d like you to have something to remember me by, you know, if you meet some veela when you’re off doing whatever you’re doing.” “i think dating opportunities are going to be pretty thin on the ground, to be honest.” “there’s the silver lining i’ve been looking for,” she whispered, and then she was kissing him as she had never kissed him before, and Harry_Potter was kissing her back, and it was blissful oblivion, better than firewhisky; she was the only real thing in the world, Ginevra_Weasley, the feel of her, one hand at her back and one in her long, sweet-smelling hair — the door banged open behind them and they jumped apart. “oh,” said Ronald_Weasley pointedly. “sorry.” “ron!” Hermione_Granger was just behind him, slightly out of breath. there was a strained silence, then Ginevra_Weasley said in a flat little voice, “well, happy birthday anyway, Harry_Potter.” ron’s ears were scarlet; Hermione_Granger looked nervous. Harry_Potter wanted to slam the door in their faces, but it felt as though a cold draft had entered the room when the door opened, and his shining moment had popped like a soap bubble. all the reasons for ending his relationship with Ginevra_Weasley, for staying well away from her, seemed to have slunk inside the room with Ronald_Weasley and all happy forgetfulness was gone. he looked at Ginevra_Weasley, wanting to say something, though he hardly knew what, but she had turned her back on him. he thought that she might have succumbed, for once, to tears. he could not do anything to comfort her in front of Ronald_Weasley “i’ll see you later,” he said, and followed the other two out of the bedroom. Ronald_Weasley marched downstairs, through the still-crowded kitchen and into the yard, and Harry_Potter kept pace with him all the way, Hermione_Granger trotting along behind them looking scared. once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mown lawn, Ronald_Weasley rounded on Harry_Potter. “you ditched her. what are you doing now, messing her around?” “i’m not messing her around,” said Harry_Potter, as Hermione_Granger caught up with them. “ron —” but Ronald_Weasley held up a hand to silence her. “she was really cut up when you ended it —” “so was i. you know why i stopped it, and it wasn’t because i wanted to.” “yeah, but you go snogging her now and she’s just going to get her Hope_Howells up again —” “she’s not an idiot, she knows it can’t happen, she’s not expecting us to — to end up married, or —” as he said it, a vivid picture formed in Harry_Potter’s mind of Ginevra_Weasley in a white dress, marrying a tall, faceless, and unpleasant stranger. in one spiraling moment it seemed to hit him: her future was free and unencumbered, whereas his … he could see nothing but voldemort ahead. “if you keep groping her every chance you get —” “it won’t happen again,” said Harry_Potter harshly. the day was cloudless, but he felt as though the sun had gone in. “okay?” Ronald_Weasley looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked backward and forward on his feet for a moment, then said, “right then, well, that’s … yeah.” Ginevra_Weasley did not seek another one-to-one meeting with Harry_Potter for the rest of the day, nor by any look or gesture did she show that they had shared more than polite conversation in her room. nevertheless, Charles_Weasley’s arrival came as a relief to Harry_Potter. it provided a distraction, watching mrs. weasley force Charles_Weasley into a chair, raise her wand threateningly, and announce that he was about to get a proper haircut. as Harry_Potter’s birthday dinner would have stretched the burrow’s kitchen to breaking point even before the arrival of Charles_Weasley, lupin, Nymphadora_Tonks, and Rubeus_Hagrid, several tables were placed end to end in the garden. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley bewitched a number of purple lanterns, all emblazoned with a large number 17, to hang in midair over the guests. thanks to mrs. weasley’s ministrations, George_Weasley’s wound was neat and clean, but Harry_Potter was not yet used to the dark hole in the side of his head, despite the twins’ many jokes about it. Hermione_Granger made purple and gold streamers erupt from the end of her wand and drape themselves artistically over the trees and bushes. “nice,” said Ronald_Weasley as with one final flourish of her wand, Hermione_Granger turned the leaves on the crabapple tree to gold. “you’ve really got an eye for that sort of thing.” “thank you, Ronald_Weasley” said Hermione_Granger, looking both pleased and a little confused. Harry_Potter turned away, smiling to himself. he had a funny notion that he would find a chapter on compliments when he found time to peruse his copy of twelve fail-safe ways to charm witches; he caught Ginevra_Weasley’s eye and grinned at her before remembering his promise to Ronald_Weasley and hurriedly striking up a conversation with monsieur delacour. “out of the way, out of the way!” sang mrs. weasley, coming through the gate with what appeared to be a giant, beach-ball-sized snitch floating in front of her. seconds later Harry_Potter realized that it was his birthday cake, which mrs. weasley was suspending with her wand, rather than risk carrying it over the uneven ground. when the cake had finally landed in the middle of the table, Harry_Potter said, “that looks amazing, mrs. weasley.” “oh, it’s nothing, dear,” she said fondly. over her shoulder, Ronald_Weasley gave Harry_Potter the thumbs-up and mouthed, good one. by seven o’clock all the guests had arrived, led into the house by Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who had waited for them at the end of the lane. Rubeus_Hagrid had honored the occasion by wearing his best, and horrible, hairy brown suit. although lupin smiled as he shook Harry_Potter’s hand, Harry_Potter thought he looked rather unhappy. it was all very odd; Nymphadora_Tonks, beside him, looked simply radiant. “happy birthday, Harry_Potter,” she said, hugging him tightly. “seventeen, eh!” said Rubeus_Hagrid as he accepted a bucket-sized glass of wine from Fred_Weasley. “six years ter the day since we met, Harry_Potter, d’yeh remember it?” “vaguely,” said Harry_Potter, grinning up at him. “didn’t you smash down the front door, give Dudley_Dursley a pig’s tail, and tell me i was a wizard?” “i forge’ the details,” Rubeus_Hagrid chortled. “all righ’, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger?” “we’re fine,” said Hermione_Granger. “how are you?” “ar, not bad. bin busy, we got some newborn unicorns, i’ll show yeh when yeh get back —” Harry_Potter avoided ron’s and Hermione_Granger’s gazes as Rubeus_Hagrid rummaged in his pocket. “here, Harry_Potter — couldn’ think what ter get yeh, but then i remembered this.” he pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring pouch with a long string, evidently intended to be worn around the neck. “mokeskin. hide anythin’ in there an’ no one but the owner can get it out. they’re rare, them.” “Rubeus_Hagrid, thanks!” “ ’s’nothin’,” said Rubeus_Hagrid with a wave of a dustbin-lid-sized hand. “an’ there’s Charles_Weasley! always liked him — hey! Charles_Weasley!” Charles_Weasley approached, running his hand slightly ruefully over his new, brutally short haircut. he was shorter than Ronald_Weasley thickset, with a number of burns and scratches up his muscley arms. “hi, Rubeus_Hagrid, how’s it going?” “bin meanin’ ter write fer ages. how’s Norberta doin’?” “Norberta?” Charles_Weasley laughed. “the norwegian ridgeback? we call her Norberta now.” “wha — Norberta’s a girl?” “oh yeah,” said Charles_Weasley. “how can you tell?” asked Hermione_Granger. “they’re a lot more vicious,” said Charles_Weasley. he looked over his shoulder and dropped his voice. “wish dad would hurry up and get here. mum’s getting edgy.” they all looked over at mrs. weasley. she was trying to talk to madame delacour while glancing repeatedly at the gate. “i think we’d better start without Arthur_Weasley,” she called to the garden at large after a moment or two. “he must have been held up at — oh!” they all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that came flying across the yard and onto the table, where it resolved itself into a bright silver weasel, which stood on its hind legs and spoke with mr. weasley’s voice. “minister of magic coming with me.” the patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleur_Delacour’s family peering in astonishment at the place where it had vanished. “we shouldn’t be here,” said lupin at once. “Harry_Potter — i’m sorry — i’ll explain another time —” he seized Nymphadora_Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence, climbed over it, and vanished from sight. mrs. weasley looked bewildered. “the minister — but why — ? i don’t understand —” but there was no time to discuss the matter; a second later, mr. weasley had appeared out of thin air at the gate, accompanied by Rufus_Scrimgeour, instantly recognizable by his mane of grizzled hair. the two newcomers marched across the yard toward the garden and the lantern-lit table, where everybody sat in silence, watching them draw closer. as scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light, Harry_Potter saw that he looked much older than the last time they had met, scraggy and grim. “sorry to intrude,” said scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt before the table. “especially as i can see that i am gate-crashing a party.” his eyes lingered for a moment on the giant snitch cake. “many happy returns.” “thanks,” said Harry_Potter. “i require a private word with you,” scrimgeour went on. “also with mr. Ronald_Weasley and miss Hermione_Granger.” “us?” said Ronald_Weasley sounding surprised. “why us?” “i shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private,” said scrimgeour. “is there such a place?” he demanded of mr. weasley. “yes, of course,” said mr. weasley, who looked nervous. “the, er, sitting room, why don’t you use that?” “you can lead the way,” scrimgeour said to Ronald_Weasley “there will be no need for you to accompany us, Arthur_Weasley.” Harry_Potter saw mr. weasley exchange a worried look with mrs. weasley as he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stood up. as they led the way back to the house in silence, Harry_Potter knew that the other two were thinking the same as he was: scrimgeour must, somehow, have learned that the three of them were planning to drop out of hogwarts. scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through the messy kitchen and into the burrow’s sitting room. although the garden had been full of soft golden evening light, it was already dark in here: Harry_Potter flicked his wand at the oil lamps as he entered and they illuminated the shabby but cozy room. scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that mr. weasley normally occupied, leaving Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to squeeze side by side onto the sofa. once they had done so, scrimgeour spoke. “i have some questions for the three of you, and i think it will be best if we do it individually. if you two” — he pointed at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger — “can wait upstairs, i will start with Ronald_Weasley.” “we’re not going anywhere,” said Harry_Potter, while Hermione_Granger nodded vIgor_Karkaroffously. “you can speak to us together, or not at all.” scrimgeour gave Harry_Potter a cold, appraising look. Harry_Potter had the impression that the minister was wondering whether it was worthwhile opening hostilities this early. “very well then, together,” he said, shrugging. he cleared his throat. “i am here, as i’m sure you know, because of Albus_Dumbledore’s will.” Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked at one another. “a surprise, apparently! you were not aware then that Albus_Dumbledore had left you anything?” “a-all of us?” said Ronald_Weasley “me and Hermione_Granger too?” “yes, all of —” but Harry_Potter interrupted. “Albus_Dumbledore died over a month ago. why has it taken this long to give us what he left us?” “isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione_Granger, before scrimgeour could answer. “they wanted to examine whatever he’s left us. you had no right to do that!” she said, and her voice trembled slightly. “i had every right,” said scrimgeour dismissively. “the decree for justifiable confiscation gives the ministry the power to confiscate the contents of a will —” “that law was created to stop wizards passing on dark artifacts,” said Hermione_Granger, “and the ministry is supposed to have powerful evidence that the deceased’s possessions are illegal before seizing them! are you telling me that you thought Albus_Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed?” “are you planning to follow a career in magical law, miss granger?” asked scrimgeour. “no, i’m not,” retorted Hermione_Granger. “i’m hoping to do some good in the world!” Ronald_Weasley laughed. scrimgeour’s eyes flickered toward him and away again as Harry_Potter spoke. “so why have you decided to let us have our things now? can’t think of a pretext to keep them?” “no, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,” said Hermione_Granger at once. “they can’t keep the objects longer than that unless they can prove they’re dangerous. right?” “would you say you were close to Albus_Dumbledore, Ronald_Weasley?” asked scrimgeour, ignoring Hermione_Granger. Ronald_Weasley looked startled. “me? not — not really … it was always Harry_Potter who …” Ronald_Weasley looked around at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger, to see Hermione_Granger giving him a stop-talking-now! sort of look, but the damage was done: scrimgeour looked as though he had heard exactly what he had expected, and wanted, to hear. he swooped like a bird of prey upon ron’s answer. “if you were not very close to Albus_Dumbledore, how do you account for the fact that he remembered you in his will? he made exceptionally few personal bequests. the vast majority of his possessions — his private library, his magical instruments, and other personal effects — were left to hogwarts. why do you think you were singled out?” “i … dunno,” said Ronald_Weasley “i … when i say we weren’t close … i mean, i think he liked me. …” “you’re being modest, Ronald_Weasley” said Hermione_Granger. “Albus_Dumbledore was very fond of you.” this was stretching the truth to breaking point; as far as Harry_Potter knew, Ronald_Weasley and Albus_Dumbledore had never been alone together, and direct contact between them had been negligible. however, scrimgeour did not seem to be listening. he put his hand inside his cloak and drew out a drawstring pouch much larger than the one Rubeus_Hagrid had given Harry_Potter. from it, he removed a scroll of parchment which he unrolled and read aloud. “ ‘the last will and testament of Albus_Dumbledore percival wulfric brian Albus_Dumbledore’ … yes, here we are. … ‘to Ronald_Weasley bilius weasley, i leave my deluminator, in the Hope_Howell that he will remember me when he uses it.’ ” scrimgeour took from the bag an object that Harry_Potter had seen before: it looked something like a silver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the power to suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a simple click. scrimgeour leaned forward and passed the deluminator to Ronald_Weasley who took it and turned it over in his fingers, looking stunned. “that is a valuable object,” said scrimgeour, watching Ronald_Weasley “it may even be unique. certainly it is of Albus_Dumbledore’s own design. why would he have left you an item so rare?” Ronald_Weasley shook his head, looking bewildered. “Albus_Dumbledore must have taught thousands of students,” scrimgeour persevered. “yet the only ones he remembered in his will are you three. why is that? to what use did he think you would put his deluminator, mr. weasley?” “put out lights, i s’pose,” mumbled Ronald_Weasley “what else could i do with it?” evidently scrimgeour had no suggestions. after squinting at Ronald_Weasley for a moment or two, he turned back to Albus_Dumbledore’s will. “ ‘to miss Hermione_Granger jean granger, i leave my copy of the tales of beedle the bard, in the Hope_Howell that she will find it entertaining and instructive.’ ” scrimgeour now pulled out of the bag a small book that looked as ancient as the copy of secrets of the darkest art upstairs. its binding was stained and peeling in places. Hermione_Granger took it from scrimgeour without a word. she held the book in her lap and gazed at it. Harry_Potter saw that the title was in runes; he had never learned to read them. as he looked, a tear splashed onto the embossed symbols. “why do you think Albus_Dumbledore left you that book, miss granger?” asked scrimgeour. “he … he knew i liked books,” said Hermione_Granger in a thick voice, mopping her eyes with her sleeve. “but why that particular book?” “i don’t know. he must have thought i’d enjoy it.” “did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages, with Albus_Dumbledore?” “no, i didn’t,” said Hermione_Granger, still wiping her eyes on her sleeve. “and if the ministry hasn’t found any hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days, i doubt that i will.” she suppressed a sob. they were wedged together so tightly that Ronald_Weasley had difficulty extracting his arm to put it around Hermione_Granger’s shoulders. scrimgeour turned back to the will. “ ‘to Harry_Potter James_Potter_I potter,’ ” he read, and Harry_Potter’s insides contracted with a sudden excitement, “ ‘i leave the snitch he caught in his first quidditch match at hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill.’ ” as scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden ball, its silver wings fluttered rather feebly, and Harry_Potter could not help feeling a definite sense of anticlimax. “why did Albus_Dumbledore leave you this snitch?” asked scrimgeour. “no idea,” said Harry_Potter. “for the reasons you just read out, i suppose … to remind me what you can get if you … persevere and whatever it was.” “you think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then?” “i suppose so,” said Harry_Potter. “what else could it be?” “i’m asking the questions,” said scrimgeour, shifting his chair a little closer to the sofa. dusk was really falling outside now; the marquee beyond the windows towered ghostly white over the hedge. “i notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a snitch,” scrimgeour said to Harry_Potter. “why is that?” Hermione_Granger laughed derisively. “oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact Harry_Potter’s a great seeker, that’s way too obvious,” she said. “there must be a secret message from Albus_Dumbledore hidden in the icing!” “i don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,” said scrimgeour, “but a snitch would be a very good hiding place for a small object. you know why, i’m sure?” Harry_Potter shrugged. Hermione_Granger, however, answered: Harry_Potter thought that answering questions correctly was such a deeply ingrained habit she could not suppress the urge. “because snitches have flesh memories,” she said. “what?” said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley together; both considered Hermione_Granger’s quidditch knowledge negligible. “correct,” said scrimgeour. “a snitch is not touched by bare skin before it is released, not even by the maker, who wears gloves. it carries an enchantment by which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in case of a disputed capture. this snitch” — he held up the tiny golden ball — “will remember your touch, potter. it occurs to me that Albus_Dumbledore, who had prodigious magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this snitch so that it will open only for you.” Harry_Potter’s heart was beating rather fast. he was sure that scrimgeour was right. how could he avoid taking the snitch with his bare hand in front of the minister? “you don’t say anything,” said scrimgeour. “perhaps you already know what the snitch contains?” “no,” said Harry_Potter, still wondering how he could appear to touch the snitch without really doing so. if only he knew legilimency, really knew it, and could read Hermione_Granger’s mind; he could practically hear her brain whirring beside him. “take it,” said scrimgeour quietly. Harry_Potter met the minister’s yellow eyes and knew he had no option but to obey. he held out his hand, and scrimgeour leaned forward again and placed the snitch, slowly and deliberately, into Harry_Potter’s palm. nothing happened. as Harry_Potter’s fingers closed around the snitch, its tired wings fluttered and were still. scrimgeour, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger continued to gaze avidly at the now partially concealed ball, as if still hoping it might transform in some way. “that was dramatic,” said Harry_Potter coolly. both Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger laughed. “that’s all, then, is it?” asked Hermione_Granger, making to prise herself off the sofa. “not quite,” said scrimgeour, who “Albus_Dumbledore left you a second bequest, potter.” looked bad-tempered now. “what is it?” asked Harry_Potter, excitement rekindling. scrimgeour did not bother to read from the will this time. “the sword of godric gryffindor,” he said. Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley both stiffened. Harry_Potter looked around for a sign of the ruby-encrusted hilt, but scrimgeour did not pull the sword from the leather pouch, which in any case looked much too small to contain it. “so where is it?” Harry_Potter asked suspiciously. “unfortunately,” said scrimgeour, “that sword was not Albus_Dumbledore’s to give away. the sword of godric gryffindor is an important historical artifact, and as such, belongs —” “it belongs to Harry_Potter!” said Hermione_Granger hotly. “it chose him, he was the one who found it, it came to him out of the sorting hat —” “according to reliable historical sources, the sword may present itself to any worthy gryffindor,” said scrimgeour. “that does not make it the exclusive property of mr. potter, whatever Albus_Dumbledore may have decided.” scrimgeour scratched his badly shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry_Potter. “why do you think — ?” “— Albus_Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword?” said Harry_Potter, struggling to keep his temper. “maybe he thought it would look nice on my wall.” “this is not a joke, potter!” growled scrimgeour. “was it because Albus_Dumbledore believed that only the sword of godric gryffindor could defeat the heir of slytherin? did he wish to give you that sword, potter, because he believed, as do many, that you are the one destined to desTroy he-who- must-not-be-named?” “interesting theory,” said Harry_Potter. “has anyone ever tried sticking a sword in voldemort? maybe the ministry should put some people onto that, instead of wasting their time stripping down deluminators or covering up breakouts from azkaban. so is this what you’ve been doing, minister, shut up in your office, trying to break open a snitch? people are dying — i was nearly one of them — voldemort chased me across three counties, he killed Alastor_Moody moody, but there’s been no word about any of that from the ministry, has there? and you still expect us to cooperate with you!” “you go too far!” shouted scrimgeour, standing up; Harry_Potter jumped to his feet too. scrimgeour limped toward Harry_Potter and jabbed him hard in the chest with the point of his wand: it singed a hole in Harry_Potter’s t-shirt like a lit cigarette. “oi!” said Ronald_Weasley jumping up and raising his own wand, but Harry_Potter said, “no! d’you want to give him an excuse to arrest us?” “remembered you’re not at school, have you?” said scrimgeour, breathing hard into Harry_Potter’s face. “remembered that i am not Albus_Dumbledore, who forgave your insolence and insubordination? you may wear that scar like a crown, potter, but it is not up to a seventeen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my job! it’s time you learned some respect!” “it’s time you earned it,” said Harry_Potter. the floor trembled; there was a sound of running footsteps, then the door to the sitting room burst open and mr. and mrs. weasley ran in. “we — we thought we heard —” began mr. weasley, looking thoroughly alarmed at the sight of Harry_Potter and the minister virtually nose to nose. “— raised voices,” panted mrs. weasley. scrimgeour took a couple of steps back from Harry_Potter, glancing at the hole he had made in Harry_Potter’s t-shirt. he seemed to regret his loss of temper. “it — it was nothing,” he growled. “i … regret your attitude,” he said, looking Harry_Potter full in the face once more. “you seem to think that the ministry does not desire what you — what Albus_Dumbledore — desired. we ought to be working together.” “i don’t like your methods, minister,” said Harry_Potter. “remember?” for the second time, he raised his right fist and displayed to scrimgeour the scars that still showed white on the back of it, spelling i must not tell lies. scrimgeour’s expression hardened. he turned away without another word and limped from the room. mrs. weasley hurried after him; Harry_Potter heard her stop at the back door. after a minute or so she called, “he’s gone!” “what did he want?” mr. weasley asked, looking around at Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger as mrs. weasley came hurrying back to them. “to give us what Albus_Dumbledore left us,” said Harry_Potter. “they’ve only just released the contents of his will.” outside in the garden, over the dinner tables, the three objects scrimgeour had given them were passed from hand to hand. everyone exclaimed over the deluminator and the tales of beedle the bard and lamented the fact that scrimgeour had refused to pass on the sword, but none of them could offer any suggestion as to why Albus_Dumbledore would have left Harry_Potter an old snitch. as mr. weasley examined the deluminator for the third or fourth time, mrs. weasley said tentatively, “Harry_Potter, dear, everyone’s awfully hungry, we didn’t like to start without you. … shall i serve dinner now?” they all ate rather hurriedly and then, after a hasty chorus of “happy birthday” and much gulping of cake, the party broke up. Rubeus_Hagrid, who was invited to the wedding the following day, but was far too bulky to sleep in the overstretched burrow, left to set up a tent for himself in a neighboring field. “meet us upstairs,” Harry_Potter whispered to Hermione_Granger, while they helped mrs. weasley restore the garden to its normal state. “after everyone’s gone to bed.” up in the attic room, Ronald_Weasley examined his deluminator, and Harry_Potter filled Rubeus_Hagrid’s mokeskin purse, not with gold, but with those items he most prized, apparently worthless though some of them were: the marauder’s map, the shard of Sirius_Black’s enchanted mirror, and Regulus_Black’s locket. he pulled the strings tight and slipped the purse around his neck, then sat holding the old snitch and watching its wings flutter feebly. at last, Hermione_Granger tapped on the door and tiptoed inside. “muffliato,” she whispered, waving her wand in the direction of the stairs. “thought you didn’t approve of that spell?” said Ronald_Weasley “times change,” said Hermione_Granger. “now, show us that deluminator.” Ronald_Weasley obliged at once. holding it up in front of him, he clicked it. the solitary lamp they had lit went out at once. “the thing is,” whispered Hermione_Granger through the dark, “we could have achieved that with peruvian instant darkness powder.” there was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew back to the ceiling and illuminated them all once more. “still, it’s cool,” said Ronald_Weasley a little defensively. “and from what they said, Albus_Dumbledore invented it himself!” “i know, but surely he wouldn’t have singled you out in his will just to help us turn out the lights!” “d’you think he knew the ministry would confiscate his will and examine everything he’d left us?” asked Harry_Potter. “definitely,” said Hermione_Granger. “he couldn’t tell us in the will why he was leaving us these things, but that still doesn’t explain …” “… why he couldn’t have given us a hint when he was alive?” asked Ronald_Weasley “well, exactly,” said Hermione_Granger, now flicking through the tales of beedle the bard. “if these things are important enough to pass on right under the nose of the ministry, you’d think he’d have let us know why … unless he thought it was obvious?” “thought wrong, then, didn’t he?” said Ronald_Weasley “i always said he was mental. brilliant and everything, but cracked. leaving Harry_Potter an old snitch — what the hell was that about?” “i’ve no idea,” said Hermione_Granger. “when scrimgeour made you take it, Harry_Potter, i was so sure that something was going to happen!” “yeah, well,” said Harry_Potter, his pulse quickening as he raised the snitch in his fingers. “i wasn’t going to try too hard in front of scrimgeour, was i?” “what do you mean?” asked Hermione_Granger. “the snitch i caught in my first ever quidditch match?” said Harry_Potter. “don’t you remember?” Hermione_Granger looked simply bemused. Ronald_Weasley however, gasped, pointing frantically from Harry_Potter to the snitch and back again until he found his voice. “that was the one you nearly swallowed!” “exactly,” said Harry_Potter, and with his heart beating fast, he pressed his mouth to the snitch. it did not open. frustration and bitter disappointment welled up inside him: he lowered the golden sphere, but then Hermione_Granger cried out. “writing! there’s writing on it, quick, look!” he nearly dropped the snitch in surprise and excitement. Hermione_Granger was quite right. engraved upon the smooth golden surface, where seconds before there had been nothing, were five words written in the thin, slanting handwriting that Harry_Potter recognized as Albus_Dumbledore’s: i open at the close. he had barely read them when the words vanished again. “ ‘i open at the close …’ what’s that supposed to mean?” Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley shook their heads, looking blank. “i open at the close … at the close … i open at the close …” but no matter how often they repeated the words, with many different inflections, they were unable to wring any more meaning from them. “and the sword,” said Ronald_Weasley finally, when they had at last abandoned their attempts to divine meaning in the snitch’s inscription. “why did he want Harry_Potter to have the sword?” “and why couldn’t he just have told me?” Harry_Potter said quietly. “it was there, it was right there on the wall of his office during all our talks last year! if he wanted me to have it, why didn’t he just give it to me then?” he felt as though he were sitting in an examination with a question he ought to have been able to answer in front of him, his brain slow and unresponsive. was there something he had missed in the long talks with Albus_Dumbledore last year? ought he to know what it all meant? had Albus_Dumbledore expected him to understand? “and as for this book,” said Hermione_Granger, “the tales of beedle the bard … i’ve never even heard of them!” “you’ve never heard of the tales of beedle the bard?” said Ronald_Weasley incredulously. “you’re kidding, right?” “no, i’m not!” said Hermione_Granger in surprise. “do you know them, then?” “well, of course i do!” Harry_Potter looked up, diverted. the circumstance of Ronald_Weasley having read a book that Hermione_Granger had not was unprecedented. Ronald_Weasley however, looked bemused by their surprise. “oh come on! all the old kids’ stories are supposed to be beedle’s, aren’t they? ‘the fountain of fair fortune’ … ‘the wizard and the hopping pot’ … ‘babbitty rabbitty and her cackling stump’ …” “excuse me?” said Hermione_Granger, giggling. “what was that last one? “come off it!” said Ronald_Weasley looking in disbelief from Harry_Potter to Hermione_Granger. “you must’ve heard of babbitty rabbitty —” “ron, you know full well Harry_Potter and i were brought up by muggles!” said Hermione_Granger. “we didn’t hear stories like that when we were little, we heard ‘snow white and the seven dwarfs’ and ‘cinderella’ —” “what’s that, an illness?” asked Ronald_Weasley “so these are children’s stories?” asked Hermione_Granger, bending again over the runes. “yeah,” said Ronald_Weasley uncertainly, “i mean, that’s just what you hear, you know, that all these old stories came from beedle. i dunno what they’re like in the original versions.” “but i wonder why Albus_Dumbledore thought i should read them?” something creaked downstairs. “probably just Charles_Weasley, now mum’s asleep, sneaking off to regrow his hair,” said Ronald_Weasley nervously. “all the same, we should get to bed,” whispered Hermione_Granger. “it wouldn’t do to oversleep tomorrow.” “no,” agreed Ronald_Weasley “a brutal triple murder by the bridegroom’s mother might put a bit of a damper on the wedding. i’ll get the lights.” and he clicked the deluminator once more as Hermione_Granger left the room. 