chapter 9 a place to hide everything seemed fuzzy, slow. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger jumped to their feet and drew their wands. many people were only just realizing that something strange had happened; heads were still turning toward the silver cat as it vanished. silence spread outward in cold ripples from the place where the patronus had landed. then somebody screamed. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger threw themselves into the paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoning crowd. guests were sprinting in all directions; many were disapparating; the protective enchantments around the burrow had broken. “ron!” Hermione_Granger cried. “ron, where are you?” as they pushed their way across the dance floor, Harry_Potter saw cloaked and masked figures appearing in the crowd; then he saw lupin and Nymphadora_Tonks, their wands raised, and heard both of them shout, “protego!”, a cry that was echoed on all sides — “ron! Ronald_Weasley” Hermione_Granger called, half sobbing as she and Harry_Potter were buffeted by terrified guests: Harry_Potter seized her hand to make sure they weren’t separated as a streak of light whizzed over their heads, whether a protective charm or something more sinister he did not know — and then Ronald_Weasley was there. he caught hold of Hermione_Granger’s free arm, and Harry_Potter felt her turn on the spot; sight and sound were extinguished as darkness pressed in upon him; all he could feel was Hermione_Granger’s hand as he was squeezed through space and time, away from the burrow, away from the descending death eaters, away, perhaps, from voldemort himself. … “where are we?” said ron’s voice. Harry_Potter opened his eyes. for a moment he thought they had not left the wedding after all: they still seemed to be surrounded by people. “tottenham court road,” panted Hermione_Granger. “walk, just walk, we need to find somewhere for you to change.” Harry_Potter did as she asked. they half walked, half ran up the wide dark street thronged with late-night revelers and lined with closed shops, stars twinkling above them. a double-decker bus rumbled by and a group of merry pub-goers ogled them as they passed; Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley were still wearing dress robes. “Hermione_Granger, we haven’t got anything to change into,” Ronald_Weasley told her, as a young woman burst into raucous giggles at the sight of him. “why didn’t i make sure i had the invisibility cloak with me?” said Harry_Potter, inwardly cursing his own stupidity. “all last year i kept it on me and —” “it’s okay, i’ve got the cloak, i’ve got clothes for both of you,” said Hermione_Granger. “just try and act naturally until — this will do.” she led them down a side street, then into the shelter of a shadowy alleyway. “when you say you’ve got the cloak, and clothes …” said Harry_Potter, frowning at Hermione_Granger, who was carrying nothing except her small beaded handbag, in which she was now rummaging. “yes, they’re here,” said Hermione_Granger, and to Harry_Potter and ron’s utter astonishment, she pulled out a pair of jeans, a sweatshirt, some maroon socks, and finally the silvery invisibility cloak. “how the ruddy hell — ?” “undetectable extension charm,” said Hermione_Granger. “tricky, but i think i’ve done it okay; anyway, i managed to fit everything we need in here.” she gave the fragile-looking bag a little shake and it echoed like a cargo hold as a number of heavy objects rolled around inside it. “oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she said, peering into it, “and i had them all stacked by subject. … oh well. … Harry_Potter, you’d better take the invisibility cloak. Ronald_Weasley hurry up and change. …” “when did you do all this?” Harry_Potter asked as Ronald_Weasley stripped off his robes. “i told you at the burrow, i’ve had the essentials packed for days, you know, in case we needed to make a quick getaway. i packed your rucksack this morning, Harry_Potter, after you changed, and put it in here. … i just had a feeling. …” “you’re amazing, you are,” said Ronald_Weasley handing her his bundled-up robes. “thank you,” said Hermione_Granger, managing a small smile as she pushed the robes into the bag. “please, Harry_Potter, get that cloak on!” Harry_Potter threw the invisibility cloak around his shoulders and pulled it up over his head, vanishing from sight. he was only just beginning to appreciate what had happened. “the others — everyone at the wedding —” “we can’t worry about that now,” whispered Hermione_Granger. “it’s you they’re after, Harry_Potter, and we’ll just put everyone in even more danger by going back.” “she’s right,” said Ronald_Weasley who seemed to know that Harry_Potter was about to argue, even if he could not see his face. “most of the order was there, they’ll look after everyone.” Harry_Potter nodded, then remembered that they could not see him, and said, “yeah.” but he thought of Ginevra_Weasley, and fear bubbled like acid in his stomach. “come on, i think we ought to keep moving,” said Hermione_Granger. they moved back up the side street and onto the main road again, where a group of men on the opposite side was singing and weaving across the pavement. “just as a matter of interest, why tottenham court road?” Ronald_Weasley asked Hermione_Granger. “i’ve no idea, it just popped into my head, but i’m sure we’re safer out in the muggle world, it’s not where they’ll expect us to be.” “true,” said Ronald_Weasley looking around, “but don’t you feel a bit — exposed?” “where else is there?” asked Hermione_Granger, cringing as the men on the other side of the road started wolf-whistling at her. “we can hardly book rooms at the leaky cauldron, can we? and grimmauld place is out if snape can get in there. … i suppose we could try my parents’ house, though i think there’s a chance they might check there. … oh, i wish they’d shut up!” “all right, darling?” the drunkest of the men on the other pavement was yelling. “fancy a drink? ditch ginger and come and have a pint!” “let’s sit down somewhere,” Hermione_Granger said hastily as Ronald_Weasley opened his mouth to shout back across the road. “look, this will do, in here!” it was a small and shabby all-night café. a light layer of grease lay on all the formica-topped tables, but it was at least empty. Harry_Potter slipped into a booth first and Ronald_Weasley sat next to him opposite Hermione_Granger, who had her back to the entrance and did not like it: she glanCedric_Diggory over her shoulder so frequently she appeared to have a twitch. Harry_Potter did not like being stationary; walking had given the illusion that they had a goal. beneath the cloak he could feel the last vestiges of polyjuice leaving him, his hands returning to their usual length and shape. he pulled his glasses out of his pocket and put them on again. after a minute or two, Ronald_Weasley said, “you know, we’re not far from the leaky cauldron here, it’s only in charing cross —” “ron, we can’t!” said Hermione_Granger at once. “not to stay there, but to find out what’s going on!” “we know what’s going on! voldemort’s taken over the ministry, what else do we need to know?” “okay, okay, it was just an idea!” they relapsed into a prickly silence. the gum-chewing waitress shuffled over and Hermione_Granger ordered two cappuccinos: as Harry_Potter was invisible, it would have looked odd to order him one. a pair of burly workmen entered the café and squeezed into the next booth. Hermione_Granger dropped her voice to a whisper. “i say we find a quiet place to disapparate and head for the countryside. once we’re there, we could send a message to the order.” “can you do that talking patronus thing, then?” asked Ronald_Weasley “i’ve been practicing and i think so,” said Hermione_Granger. “well, as long as it doesn’t get them into trouble, though they might’ve been arrested already. god, that’s revolting,” Ronald_Weasley added after one sip of the foamy, grayish coffee. the waitress had heard; she shot Ronald_Weasley a nasty look as she shuffled off to take the new customers’ orders. the larger of the two workmen, who was blond and quite huge, now that Harry_Potter came to look at him, waved her away. she stared, affronted. “let’s get going, then, i don’t want to drink this muck,” said Ronald_Weasley “Hermione_Granger, have you got muggle money to pay for this?” “yes, i took out all my building society savings before i came to the burrow. i’ll bet all the change is at the bottom,” sighed Hermione_Granger, reaching for her beaded bag. the two workmen made identical movements, and Harry_Potter mirrored them without conscious thought: all three of them drew their wands. Ronald_Weasley a few seconds late in realizing what was going on, lunged across the table, pushing Hermione_Granger sideways onto her bench. the force of the death eaters’ spells shattered the tiled wall where ron’s head had just been, as Harry_Potter, still invisible, yelled, “stupefy!” the great blond death eater was hit in the face by a jet of red light: he slumped sideways, unconscious. his companion, unable to see who had cast the spell, fired another at ron: shining black ropes flew from his wand-tip and bound Ronald_Weasley head to foot — the waitress screamed and ran for the door — Harry_Potter sent another stunning spell at the death eater with the twisted face who had tied up Ronald_Weasley but the spell missed, rebounded on the window, and hit the waitress, who collapsed in front of the door. “expulso!” bellowed the death eater, and the table behind which Harry_Potter was standing blew up: the force of the explosion slammed him into the wall and he felt his wand leave his hand as the cloak slipped off him. “petrificus totalus!” screamed Hermione_Granger from out of sight, and the death eater fell forward like a statue to land with a crunching thud on the mess of broken china, table, and coffee. Hermione_Granger crawled out from underneath the bench, shaking bits of glass ashtray out of her hair and trembling all over. “d-diffindo,” she said, pointing her wand at Ronald_Weasley who roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his jeans, leaving a deep cut. “oh, i’m so sorry, Ronald_Weasley my hand’s shaking! diffindo!” the severed ropes fell away. Ronald_Weasley got to his feet, shaking his arms to regain feeling in them. Harry_Potter picked up his wand and climbed over all the debris to where the large blond death eater was sprawled across the bench. “i should’ve recognized him, he was there the night Albus_Dumbledore died,” he said. he turned over the darker death eater with his foot; the man’s eyes moved rapidly between Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “that’s dolohov,” said Ronald_Weasley “i recognize him from the old wanted posters. i think the big one’s Thorfinn_Rowle.” “never mind what they’re called!” said Hermione_Granger a little hystEric_Munchally. “how did they find us? what are we going to do?” somehow her panic seemed to clear Harry_Potter’s head. “lock the door,” he told her, “and Ronald_Weasley turn out the lights.” he looked down at the paralyzed dolohov, thinking fast as the lock clicked and Ronald_Weasley used the deluminator to plunge the café into darkness. Harry_Potter could hear the men who had jeered at Hermione_Granger earlier, yelling at another girl in the distance. “what are we going to do with them?” Ronald_Weasley whispered to Harry_Potter through the dark; then, even more quietly, “kill them? they’d kill us. they had a good go just now.” Hermione_Granger shuddered and took a step backward. Harry_Potter shook his head. “we just need to wipe their memories,” said Harry_Potter. “it’s better like that, it’ll throw them off the scent. if we killed them it’d be obvious we were here.” “you’re the boss,” said Ronald_Weasley sounding profoundly relieved. “but i’ve never done a memory charm.” “nor have i,” said Hermione_Granger, “but i know the theory.” she took a deep, calming breath, then pointed her wand at dolohov’s forehead and said, “obliviate.” at once, dolohov’s eyes became unfocused and dreamy. “brilliant!” said Harry_Potter, clapping her on the back. “take care of the other one and the waitress while Ronald_Weasley and i clear up.” “clear up?” said Ronald_Weasley looking around at the partly desTroyed café. “why?” “don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened if they wake up and find themselves in a place that looks like it’s just been bombed?” “oh right, yeah …” Ronald_Weasley struggled for a moment before managing to extract his wand from his pocket. “it’s no wonder i can’t get it out, Hermione_Granger, you packed my old jeans, they’re tight.” “oh, i’m so sorry,” hissed Hermione_Granger, and as she dragged the waitress out of sight of the windows, Harry_Potter heard her mutter a suggestion as to where Ronald_Weasley could stick his wand instead. once the café was restored to its previous condition, they heaved the death eaters back into their booth and propped them up facing each other. “but how did they find us?” Hermione_Granger asked, looking from one inert man to the other. “how did they know where we were?” she turned to Harry_Potter. “you — you don’t think you’ve still got your trace on you, do you, Harry_Potter?” “he can’t have,” said Ronald_Weasley “the trace breaks at seventeen, that’s wizarding law, you can’t put it on an adult.” “as far as you know,” said Hermione_Granger. “what if the death eaters have found a way to put it on a seventeen-year-old?” “but Harry_Potter hasn’t been near a death eater in the last twenty-four hours. who’s supposed to have put a trace back on him?” Hermione_Granger did not reply. Harry_Potter felt contaminated, tainted: was that really how the death eaters had found them? “if i can’t use magic, and you can’t use magic near me, without us giving away our position —” he began. “we’re not splitting up!” said Hermione_Granger firmly. “we need a safe place to hide,” said Ronald_Weasley “give us time to think things through.” “grimmauld place,” said Harry_Potter. the other two gaped. “don’t be silly, Harry_Potter, snape can get in there!” “ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinxes against him — and even if they haven’t worked,” he pressed on as Hermione_Granger began to argue, “so what? i swear, i’d like nothing better than to meet snape!” “but —” “Hermione_Granger, where else is there? it’s the best chance we’ve got. snape’s only one death eater. if i’ve still got the trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wherever else we go.” she could not argue, though she looked as if she would have liked to. while she unlocked the café door, Ronald_Weasley clicked the deluminator to release the café’s light. then, on Harry_Potter’s count of three, they reversed the spells upon their three victims, and before the waitress or either of the death eaters could do more than stir sleepily, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had turned on the spot and vanished into the compressing darkness once more. seconds later Harry_Potter’s lungs expanded gratefully and he opened his eyes: they were now standing in the middle of a familiar small and shabby square. tall, dilapidated houses looked down on them from every side. number twelve was visible to them, for they had been told of its existence by Albus_Dumbledore, its secret-keeper, and they rushed toward it, checking every few yards that they were not being followed or observed. they raCedric_Diggory up the stone steps, and Harry_Potter tapped the front door once with his wand. they heard a series of metallic clicks and the clatter of a chain, then the door swung open with a creak and they hurried over the threshold. as Harry_Potter closed the door behind them, the old-fashioned gas lamps sprang into life, casting flickering light along the length of the hallway. it looked just as Harry_Potter remembered it: eerie, cobwebbed, the outlines of the house-elf heads on the wall throwing odd shadows up the staircase. long dark curtains concealed the portrait of Sirius_Black’s mother. the only thing that was out of place was the troll’s leg umbrella stand, which was lying on its side as if Nymphadora_Tonks had just knocked it over again. “i think somebody’s been in here,” Hermione_Granger whispered, pointing toward it. “that could’ve happened as the order left,” Ronald_Weasley murmured back. “so where are these jinxes they put up against snape?” Harry_Potter asked. “maybe they’re only activated if he shows up?” suggested Ronald_Weasley yet they remained close together on the doormat, backs against the door, scared to move farther into the house. “well, we can’t stay here forever,” said Harry_Potter, and he took a step forward. “Severus_Snape?” Alastor_Moody moody’s voice whispered out of the darkness, making all three of them jump back in fright. “we’re not snape!” croaked Harry_Potter, before something whooshed over him like cold air and his tongue curled backward on itself, making it impossible to speak. before he had time to feel inside his mouth, however, his tongue had unraveled again. the other two seemed to have experienCedric_Diggory the same unpleasant sensation. Ronald_Weasley was making retching noises; Hermione_Granger stammered, “that m- must have b-been the t-tongue-tying curse Alastor_Moody set up for snape!” gingerly Harry_Potter took another step forward. something shifted in the shadows at the end of the hall, and before any of them could say another word, a figure had risen up out of the carpet, tall, dust-colored, and terrible: Hermione_Granger screamed and so did mrs. black, her curtains flying open; the gray figure was gliding toward them, faster and faster, its waist-length hair and beard streaming behind it, its face sunken, fleshless, with empty eye sockets: horribly familiar, dreadfully altered, it raised a wasted arm, pointing at Harry_Potter. “no!” Harry_Potter shouted, and though he had raised his wand no spell occurred to him. “no! it wasn’t us! we didn’t kill you —” on the word kill, the figure exploded in a great cloud of dust: coughing, his eyes watering, Harry_Potter looked around to see Hermione_Granger crouched on the floor by the door with her arms over her head, and Ronald_Weasley who was shaking from head to foot, patting her clumsily on the shoulder and saying, “it’s all r-right. … it’s g-gone. …” dust swirled around Harry_Potter like mist, catching the blue gaslight, as mrs. black continued to scream. “mudbloods, filth, stains of dishonor, taint of shame on the house of my fathers —” “shut up!” Harry_Potter bellowed, directing his wand at her, and with a bang and a burst of red sparks, the curtains swung shut again, silencing her. “that … that was …” Hermione_Granger whimpered, as Ronald_Weasley helped her to her feet. “yeah,” said Harry_Potter, “but it wasn’t really him, was it? just something to scare snape.” had it worked, Harry_Potter wondered, or had snape already blasted the horror- figure aside as casually as he had killed the real Albus_Dumbledore? nerves still tingling, he led the other two up the hall, half-expecting some new terror to reveal itself, but nothing moved except for a mouse skittering along the skirting board. “before we go any farther, i think we’d better check,” whispered Hermione_Granger, and she raised her wand and said, “homenum revelio.” nothing happened. “well, you’ve just had a big shock,” said Ronald_Weasley kindly. “what was that supposed to do?” “it did what i meant it to do!” said Hermione_Granger rather crossly. “that was a spell to reveal human presence, and there’s nobody here except us!” “and old dusty,” said Ronald_Weasley glancing at the patch of carpet from which the corpse-figure had risen. “let’s go up,” said Hermione_Granger with a frightened look at the same spot, and she led the way up the creaking stairs to the drawing room on the first floor. Hermione_Granger waved her wand to ignite the old gas lamps, then, shivering slightly in the drafty room, she perched on the sofa, her arms wrapped tightly around her. Ronald_Weasley crossed to the window and moved the heavy velvet curtain aside an inch. “can’t see anyone out there,” he reported. “and you’d think, if Harry_Potter still had a trace on him, they’d have followed us here. i know they can’t get in the house, but — what’s up, Harry_Potter?” Harry_Potter had given a cry of pain: his scar had burned again as something flashed across his mind like a bright light on water. he saw a large shadow and felt a fury that was not his own pound through his body, violent and brief as an electric shock. “what did you see?” Ronald_Weasley asked, advancing on Harry_Potter. “did you see him at my place?” “no, i just felt anger — he’s really angry —” “but that could be at the burrow,” said Ronald_Weasley loudly. “what else? didn’t you see anything? was he cursing someone?” “no, i just felt anger — i couldn’t tell —” Harry_Potter felt badgered, confused, and Hermione_Granger did not help as she said in a frightened voice, “your scar, again? but what’s going on? i thought that connection had closed!” “it did, for a while,” muttered Harry_Potter; his scar was still painful, which made it hard to concentrate. “i — i think it’s started opening again whenever he loses control, that’s how it used to —” “but then you’ve got to close your mind!” said Hermione_Granger shrilly. “Harry_Potter, Albus_Dumbledore didn’t want you to use that connection, he wanted you to shut it down, that’s why you were supposed to use occlumency! otherwise voldemort can plant false images in your mind, remember —” “yeah, i do remember, thanks,” said Harry_Potter through gritted teeth; he did not need Hermione_Granger to tell him that voldemort had once used this selfsame connection between them to lead him into a trap, nor that it had resulted in Sirius_Black’s death. he wished that he had not told them what he had seen and felt; it made voldemort more threatening, as though he were pressing against the window of the room, and still the pain in his scar was building and he fought it: it was like resisting the urge to be sick. he turned his back on Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, pretending to examine the old tapestry of the black family tree on the wall. then Hermione_Granger shrieked: Harry_Potter drew his wand again and spun around to see a silver patronus soar through the drawing room window and land upon the floor in front of them, where it solidified into the weasel that spoke with the voice of ron’s father. “family safe, do not reply, we are being watched.” the patronus dissolved into nothingness. Ronald_Weasley let out a noise between a whimper and a groan and dropped onto the sofa: Hermione_Granger joined him, gripping his arm. “they’re all right, they’re all right!” she whispered, and Ronald_Weasley half laughed and hugged her. “Harry_Potter,” he said over Hermione_Granger’s shoulder, “i —” “it’s not a problem,” said Harry_Potter, sickened by the pain in his head. “it’s your family, ’course you’re worried. i’d feel the same way.” he thought of Ginevra_Weasley. “i do feel the same way.” the pain in his scar was reaching a peak, burning as it had done in the garden of the burrow. faintly he heard Hermione_Granger say, “i don’t want to be on my own. could we use the sleeping bags i’ve brought and camp in here tonight?” he heard Ronald_Weasley agree. he could not fight the pain much longer: he had to succumb. “bathroom,” he muttered, and he left the room as fast as he could without running. he barely made it: bolting the door behind him with trembling hands, he grasped his pounding head and fell to the floor, then in an explosion of agony, he felt the rage that did not belong to him possess his soul, saw a long room lit only by firelight, and the great blond death eater on the floor, screaming and writhing, and a slighter figure standing over him, wand outstretched, while Harry_Potter spoke in a high, cold, merciless voice. “more, rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to Nagini? Tom_Riddle is not sure that he will forgive this time. … you called me back for this, to tell me that Harry_Potter has escaped again? Draco_Malfoy, give rowle another taste of our displeasure. … do it, or feel my wrath yourself!” a log fell in the fire: flames reared, their light darting across a terrified, pointed white face — with a sense of emerging from deep water, Harry_Potter drew heaving breaths and opened his eyes. he was spread-eagled on the cold black marble floor, his nose inches from one of the silver serpent tails that supported the large bathtub. he sat up. malfoy’s gaunt, petrified face seemed branded on the inside of his eyes. Harry_Potter felt sickened by what he had seen, by the use to which Draco_Malfoy was now being put by voldemort. there was a sharp rap on the door, and Harry_Potter jumped as Hermione_Granger’s voice rang out. “Harry_Potter, do you want your toothbrush? i’ve got it here.” “yeah, great, thanks,” he said, fighting to keep his voice casual as he stood up to let her in. 