chapter 24 the wandmaker it was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an instant Harry_Potter knelt again beside Albus_Dumbledore’s body at the foot of the tallest tower at hogwarts, but in reality he was staring at a tiny body curled upon the grass, pierced by Bellatrix_Lestrange’s silver knife. Harry_Potter’s voice was still saying, “Dobby … Dobby …” even though he knew that the Winky had gone where he could not call him back. after a minute or so he realized that they had, after all, come to the right place, for here were William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour, Dean_Thomas and Luna_Lovegood, gathering around him as he knelt over the elf. “Hermione_Granger?” he said suddenly. “where is she?” “ron’s taken her inside,” said bill. “she’ll be all right.” Harry_Potter looked back down at Dobby. he stretched out a hand and pulled the sharp blade from the elf’s body, then dragged off his own Jack_Sloperet and covered Dobby in it like a blanket. the sea was rushing against rock somewhere nearby; Harry_Potter listened to it while the others talked, discussing matters in which he could take no interest, making decisions. Dean_Thomas carried the injured Griphook into the house, Fleur_Delacour hurrying with them; now William_Weasley was making suggestions about burying the elf. Harry_Potter agreed without really knowing what he was saying. as he did so, he gazed down at the tiny body, and his scar prickled and burned, and in one part of his mind, viewed as if from the wrong end of a long telescope, he saw voldemort punishing those they had left behind at malfoy manor. his rage was dreadful and yet Harry_Potter’s grief for Dobby seemed to diminish it, so that it became a distant storm that reached Harry_Potter from across a vast, silent ocean. “i want to do it properly,” were the first words of which Harry_Potter was fully conscious of speaking. “not by magic. have you got a spade?” and shortly afterward he had set to work, alone, digging the grave in the place that William_Weasley had shown him at the end of the garden, between bushes. he dug with a kind of fury, relishing the manual work, glorying in the non- magic of it, for every drop of his sweat and every blister felt like a gift to the Winky who had saved their lives. his scar burned, but he was master of the pain; he felt it, yet was apart from it. he had learned control at last, learned to shut his mind to voldemort, the very thing Albus_Dumbledore had wanted him to learn from snape. just as voldemort had not been able to possess Harry_Potter while Harry_Potter was consumed with grief for Sirius_Black, so his thoughts could not penetrate Harry_Potter now, while he mourned Dobby. grief, it seemed, drove voldemort out … though Albus_Dumbledore, of course, would have said that it was love. … on Harry_Potter dug, deeper and deeper into the hard, cold earth, subsuming his grief in sweat, denying the pain in his scar. in the darkness, with nothing but the sound of his own breath and the rushing sea to keep him company, the things that had happened at the malfoys’ returned to him, the things he had heard came back to him, and understanding blossomed in the darkness. … the steady rhythm of his arms beat time with his thoughts. hallows … horcruxes … hallows … horcruxes … yet he no longer burned with that weird, obsessive longing. loss and fear had snuffed it out: he felt as though he had been slapped awake again. deeper and deeper Harry_Potter sank into the grave, and he knew where voldemort had been tonight, and whom he had killed in the topmost cell of nurmengard, and why. … and he thought of Peter_Pettigrew, dead because of one small unconscious impulse of mercy. … Albus_Dumbledore had foreseen that. … how much more had he known? Harry_Potter lost track of time. he knew only that the darkness had lightened a few degrees when he was rejoined by Ronald_Weasley and Dean_Thomas. “how’s Hermione_Granger?” “better,” said Ronald_Weasley “Fleur_Delacour’s looking after her.” Harry_Potter had his retort ready for when they asked him why he had not simply created a perfect grave with his wand, but he did not need it. they jumped down into the hole he had made with spades of their own, and together they worked in silence until the hole seemed deep enough. Harry_Potter wrapped the Winky more snugly in his Jack_Sloperet. Ronald_Weasley sat on the edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes and socks, which he placed upon the elf’s bare feet. Dean_Thomas produced a woolen hat, which Harry_Potter placed carefully upon Dobby’s head, muffling his batlike ears. “we should close his eyes.” Harry_Potter had not heard the others coming through the darkness. William_Weasley was wearing a traveling cloak, Fleur_Delacour a large white apron, from the pocket of which protruded a bottle of what Harry_Potter recognized to be skele-gro. Hermione_Granger was wrapped in a borrowed dressing gown, pale and unsteady on her feet; Ronald_Weasley put an arm around her when she reached him. Luna_Lovegood, who was huddled in one of Fleur_Delacour’s coats, crouched down and placed her fingers tenderly upon each of the elf’s eyelids, sliding them over his glassy stare. “there,” she said softly. “now he could be sleeping.” Harry_Potter placed the Winky into the grave, arranged his tiny limbs so that he might have been resting, then climbed out and gazed for the last time upon the little body. he forced himself not to break down as he remembered Albus_Dumbledore’s funeral, and the rows and rows of golden chairs, and the minister of magic in the front row, the recitation of Albus_Dumbledore’s achievements, the stateliness of the white marble tomb. he felt that Dobby deserved just as grand a funeral, and yet here the Winky lay between bushes in a roughly dug hole. “i think we ought to say something,” piped up Luna_Lovegood. “i’ll go first, shall i?” and as everybody looked at her, she addressed the dead Winky at the bottom of the grave. “thank you so much, Dobby, for rescuing me from that cellar. it’s so unfair that you had to die, when you were so good and brave. i’ll always remember what you did for us. i Hope_Howell you’re happy now.” she turned and looked expectantly at Ronald_Weasley who cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, “yeah … thanks, Dobby.” “thanks,” muttered Dean_Thomas. Harry_Potter swallowed. “good-bye, Dobby,” he said. it was all he could manage, but Luna_Lovegood had said it all for him. William_Weasley raised his wand, and the pile of earth beside the grave rose up into the air and fell neatly upon it, a small, reddish mound. “d’you mind if i stay here a moment?” he asked the others. they murmured words he did not catch; he felt gentle pats upon his back, and then they all traipsed back toward the cottage, leaving Harry_Potter alone beside the elf. he looked around: there were a number of large white stones, smoothed by the sea, marking the edge of the flower beds. he picked up one of the largest and laid it, pillowlike, over the place where Dobby’s head now rested. he then felt in his pocket for a wand. there were two in there. he had forgotten, lost track; he could not now remember whose wands these were; he seemed to remember wrenching them out of someone’s hand. he selected the shorter of the two, which felt friendlier in his hand, and pointed it at the rock. slowly, under his murmured instruction, deep cuts appeared upon the rock’s surface. he knew that Hermione_Granger could have done it more neatly, and probably more quickly, but he wanted to mark the spot as he had wanted to dig the grave. when Harry_Potter stood up again, the stone read: here lies Dobby, a free elf. he looked down at his handiwork for a few more seconds, then walked away, his scar still prickling a little, and his mind full of those things that had come to him in the grave, ideas that had taken shape in the darkness, ideas both fascinating and terrible. they were all sitting in the living room when he entered the little hall, their attention focused upon bill, who was talking. the room was light- colored, pretty, with a small fire of driftwood burning brightly in the fireplace. Harry_Potter did not want to drop mud upon the carpet, so he stood in the doorway, listening. “… lucky that Ginevra_Weasley’s on holiday. if she’d been at hogwarts, they could have taken her before we reached her. now we know she’s safe too.” he looked around and saw Harry_Potter standing there. “i’ve been getting them all out of the burrow,” he explained. “moved them to Muriel’s. the death eaters know ron’s with you now, they’re bound to target the family — don’t apologize,” he added at the sight of Harry_Potter’s expression. “it was always a matter of time, dad’s been saying so for months. we’re the biggest blood-traitor family there is.” “how are they protected?” asked Harry_Potter. “fidelius charm. dad’s secret-keeper. and we’ve done it on this cottage too; i’m secret-keeper here. none of us can go to work, but that’s hardly the most important thing now. once Garrick_Ollivander and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too. there isn’t much room here, but she’s got plenty. Griphook’s legs are on the mend, Fleur_Delacour’s given him skele- gro; we could probably move them in an hour or —” “no,” Harry_Potter said, and William_Weasley looked startled. “i need both of them here. i need to talk to them. it’s important.” he heard the authority in his own voice, the conviction, the sense of purpose that had come to him as he dug Dobby’s grave. all of their faces were turned toward him, looking puzzled. “i’m going to wash,” Harry_Potter told bill, looking down at his hands, still covered in mud and Dobby’s blood. “then i’ll need to see them, straightaway.” he walked into the little kitchen, to the basin beneath a window overlooking the sea. dawn was breaking over the horizon, shell pink and faintly gold, as he washed, again following the train of thought that had come to him in the dark garden. … Dobby would never be able to tell them who had sent him to the cellar, but Harry_Potter knew what he had seen. a piercing blue eye had looked out of the mirror fragment, and then help had come. help will always be given at hogwarts to those who ask for it. Harry_Potter dried his hands, impervious to the beauty of the scene outside the window and to the murmuring of the others in the sitting room. he looked out over the ocean and felt closer, this dawn, than ever before, closer to the heart of it all. and still his scar prickled, and he knew that voldemort was getting there too. Harry_Potter understood and yet did not understand. his instinct was telling him one thing, his brain quite another. the Albus_Dumbledore in Harry_Potter’s head smiled, surveying Harry_Potter over the tips of his fingers, pressed together as if in prayer. you gave Ronald_Weasley the deluminator. you understood him. … you gave him a way back. … and you understood Peter_Pettigrew too. … you knew there was a bit of regret there, somewhere. … and if you knew them … what did you know about me, Albus_Dumbledore? am i meant to know, but not to seek? did you know how hard i’d find that? is that why you made it this difficult? so i’d have time to work that out? Harry_Potter stood quite still, eyes glazed, watching the place where a bright gold rim of dazzling sun was rising over the horizon. then he looked down at his clean hands and was momentarily surprised to see the cloth he was holding in them. he set it down and returned to the hall, and as he did so, he felt his scar pulse angrily, and there flashed across his mind, swift as the reflection of a dragonfly over water, the outline of a building he knew extremely well. William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour were standing at the foot of the stairs. “i need to speak to Griphook and Garrick_Ollivander,” Harry_Potter said. “no,” said Fleur_Delacour. “you will ’ave to wait, ’arry. zey are both ill, tired —” “i’m sorry,” he said without heat, “but it can’t wait. i need to talk to them now. privately — and separately. it’s urgent.” “Harry_Potter, what the hell’s going on?” asked bill. “you turn up here with a dead house-elf and a half-conscious goblin, Hermione_Granger looks as though she’s been tortured, and ron’s just refused to tell me anything —” “we can’t tell you what we’re doing,” said Harry_Potter flatly. “you’re in the order, bill, you know Albus_Dumbledore left us a mission. we’re not supposed to talk about it to anyone else.” Fleur_Delacour made an impatient noise, but William_Weasley did not look at her; he was staring at Harry_Potter. his deeply scarred face was hard to read. finally William_Weasley said, “all right. who do you want to talk to first?” Harry_Potter hesitated. he knew what hung on his decision. there was hardly any time left; now was the moment to decide: horcruxes or hallows? “Griphook,” Harry_Potter said. “i’ll speak to Griphook first.” his heart was racing as if he had been sprinting and had just cleared an enormous obstacle. “up here, then,” said bill, leading the way. Harry_Potter had walked up several steps before stopping and looking back. “i need you two as well!” he called to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, who had been skulking, half concealed, in the doorway of the sitting room. they both moved into the light, looking oddly relieved. “how are you?” Harry_Potter asked Hermione_Granger. “you were amazing — coming up with that story when she was hurting you like that —” Hermione_Granger gave a weak smile as Ronald_Weasley gave her a one-armed squeeze. “what are we doing now, Harry_Potter?” he asked. “you’ll see. come on.” Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger followed William_Weasley up the steep stairs onto a small landing. three doors led off it. “in here,” said bill, opening the door into his and Fleur_Delacour’s room. it too had a view of the sea, now flecked with gold in the sunrise. Harry_Potter moved to the window, turned his back on the spectacular view, and waited, his arms folded, his scar prickling. Hermione_Granger took the chair beside the dressing table; Ronald_Weasley sat on the arm. William_Weasley reappeared, carrying the little goblin, whom he set down carefully upon the bed. Griphook grunted thanks, and William_Weasley left, closing the door upon them all. “i’m sorry to take you out of bed,” said Harry_Potter. “how are your legs?” “painful,” replied the goblin. “but mending.” he was still clutching the sword of gryffindor, and wore a strange look: half truculent, half intrigued. Harry_Potter noted the goblin’s sallow skin, his long thin fingers, his black eyes. Fleur_Delacour had removed his shoes: his long feet were dirty. he was larger than a house-elf, but not by much. his domed head was much bigger than a human’s. “you probably don’t remember —” Harry_Potter began. “— that i was the goblin who showed you to your vault, the first time you ever visited Gringotts_Head_Goblin?” said Griphook. “i remember, Harry_Potter. even amongst goblins, you are very famous.” Harry_Potter and the goblin looked at each other, sizing each other up. Harry_Potter’s scar was still prickling. he wanted to get through this interview with Griphook quickly, and at the same time was afraid of making a false move. while he tried to decide on the best way to approach his request, the goblin broke the silence. “you buried the elf,” he said, sounding unexpectedly rancorous. “i watched you from the window of the bedroom next door.” “yes,” said Harry_Potter. Griphook looked at him out of the corners of his slanting black eyes. “you are an unusual wizard, Harry_Potter.” “in what way?” asked Harry_Potter, rubbing his scar absently. “you dug the grave.” “so?” Griphook did not answer. Harry_Potter rather thought he was being sneered at for acting like a muggle, but it did not much matter to him whether Griphook approved of Dobby’s grave or not. he gathered himself for the attack. “Griphook, i need to ask —” “you also rescued a goblin.” “what?” “you brought me here. saved me.” “well, i take it you’re not sorry?” said Harry_Potter a little impatiently. “no, Harry_Potter,” said Griphook, and with one finger he twisted the thin black beard upon his chin, “but you are a very odd wizard.” “right,” said Harry_Potter. “well, i need some help, Griphook, and you can give it to me.” the goblin made no sign of encouragement, but continued to frown at Harry_Potter as though he had never seen anything like him. “i need to break into a Gringotts_Head_Goblin vault.” Harry_Potter had not meant to say it so baldly; the words were forced from him as pain shot through his Harry_Potter scar and he saw, again, the outline of hogwarts. he closed his mind firmly. he needed to deal with Griphook first. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were staring at Harry_Potter as though he had gone mad. “Harry_Potter —” said Hermione_Granger, but she was cut off by Griphook. “break into a Gringotts_Head_Goblin vault?” repeated the goblin, wincing a little as he shifted his position upon the bed. “it is impossible.” “no, it isn’t,” Ronald_Weasley contradicted him. “it’s been done.” “yeah,” said Harry_Potter. “the same day i first met you, Griphook. my birthday, seven years ago.” “the vault in question was empty at the time,” snapped the goblin, and Harry_Potter understood that even though Griphook had left Gringotts_Head_Goblin, he was offended at the idea of its defenses being breached. “its protection was minimal.” “well, the vault we need to get into isn’t empty, and i’m guessing its protection will be pretty powerful,” said Harry_Potter. “it belongs to Rabastan_Lestrange, Rodolphus_Lestrange and Bellatrix_Lestrange.” he saw Hermione_Granger and Ronald_Weasley look at each other, astonished, but there would be time enough to explain after Griphook had given his answer. “you have no chance,” said Griphook flatly. “no chance at all. if you seek beneath our floors, a treasure that was never yours —” “thief, you have been warned, beware — yeah, i know, i remember,” said Harry_Potter. “but i’m not trying to get myself any treasure, i’m not trying to take anything for personal gain. can you believe that?” the goblin looked slantwise at Harry_Potter, and the Harry_Potter scar on Harry_Potter’s forehead prickled, but he ignored it, refusing to acknowledge its pain or its invitation. “if there was a wizard of whom i would believe that they did not seek personal gain,” said Griphook finally, “it would be you, Harry_Potter. goblins and elves are not used to the protection or the respect that you have shown this night. not from wand-carriers.” “wand-carriers,” repeated Harry_Potter: the phrase fell oddly upon his ears as his scar prickled, as voldemort turned his thoughts northward, and as Harry_Potter burned to question Garrick_Ollivander next door. “the right to carry a wand,” said the goblin quietly, “has long been contested between wizards and goblins.” “well, goblins can do magic without wands,” said Ronald_Weasley “that is immaterial! wizards refuse to share the secrets of wand-lore with other magical beings, they deny us the possibility of extending our powers!” “well, goblins won’t share any of their magic either,” said Ronald_Weasley “you won’t tell us how to make swords and armor the way you do. goblins know how to work metal in a way wizards have never —” “it doesn’t matter,” said Harry_Potter, noting Griphook’s rising color. “this isn’t about wizards versus goblins or any other sort of magical creature —” Griphook gave a nasty laugh. “but it is, it is about precisely that! as the dark lord becomes ever more powerful, your race is set still more firmly above mine! Gringotts_Head_Goblin falls under wizarding rule, house-elves are slaughtered, and who amongst the wand-carriers protests?” “we do!” said Hermione_Granger. she had sat up straight, her eyes bright. “we protest! and i’m hunted quite as much as any goblin or elf, Griphook! i’m a mudblood!” “don’t call yourself —” Ronald_Weasley muttered. “why shouldn’t i?” said Hermione_Granger. “mudblood, and proud of it! i’ve got no higher position under this new order than you have, Griphook! it was me they chose to torture, back at the malfoys’!” as she spoke, she pulled aside the neck of the dressing gown to reveal the thin cut Bellatrix_Lestrange had made, scarlet against her throat. “did you know that it was Harry_Potter who set Dobby free?” she asked. “did you know that we’ve wanted elves to be freed for years?” (ron fidgeted uncomfortably on the arm of Hermione_Granger’s chair.) “you can’t want you- know-who defeated more than we do, Griphook!” the goblin gazed at Hermione_Granger with the same curiosity he had shown Harry_Potter. “what do you seek within Rabastan_Lestrange, Rodolphus_Lestrange and Bellatrix_Lestrange’ vault?” he asked abruptly. “the sword that lies inside it is a fake. this is the real one.” he looked from one to the other of them. “i think that you already know this. you asked me to lie for you back there.” “but the fake sword isn’t the only thing in that vault, is it?” asked Harry_Potter. “perhaps you’ve seen the other things in there?” his heart was pounding harder than ever. he redoubled his efforts to ignore the pulsing of his scar. the goblin twisted his beard around his finger again. “it is against our code to speak of the secrets of Gringotts_Head_Goblin. we are the guardians of fabulous treasures. we have a duty to the objects placed in our care, which were, so often, wrought by our fingers.” the goblin stroked the sword, and his black eyes roved from Harry_Potter to Hermione_Granger to Ronald_Weasley and then back again. “so young,” he said finally, “to be fighting so many.” “will you help us?” said Harry_Potter. “we haven’t got a Hope_Howell of breaking in without a goblin’s help. you’re our one chance.” “i shall … think about it,” said Griphook maddeningly. “but —” Ronald_Weasley started angrily; Hermione_Granger nudged him in the ribs. “thank you,” said Harry_Potter. the goblin bowed his great domed head in acknowledgement, then flexed his short legs. “i think,” he said, settling himself ostentatiously upon William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s bed, “that the skele-gro has finished its work. i may be able to sleep at last. forgive me. …” “yeah, of course,” said Harry_Potter, but before leaving the room he leaned forward and took the sword of gryffindor from beside the goblin. Griphook did not protest, but Harry_Potter thought he saw resentment in the goblin’s eyes as he closed the door upon him. “little git,” whispered Ronald_Weasley “he’s enjoying keeping us hanging.” “Harry_Potter,” whispered Hermione_Granger, pulling them both away from the door, into the middle of the still-dark landing, “are you saying what i think you’re saying? are you saying there’s a horcrux in Rabastan_Lestrange, Rodolphus_Lestrange and Bellatrix_Lestrange’ vault?” “yes,” said Harry_Potter. “Bellatrix_Lestrange was terrified when she thought we’d been in there, she was beside herself. why? what did she think we’d seen, what else did she think we might have taken? something she was petrified you- know-who would find out about.” “but i thought we were looking for places Tom_Riddle’s been, places he’s done something important?” said Ronald_Weasley looking baffled. “was he ever inside Rabastan_Lestrange, Rodolphus_Lestrange and Bellatrix_Lestrange’ vault?” “i don’t know whether he was ever inside Gringotts_Head_Goblin,” said Harry_Potter. “he never had gold there when he was younger, because nobody left him anything. he would have seen the bank from the outside, though, the first time he ever went to diagon alley.” Harry_Potter’s scar throbbed, but he ignored it; he wanted Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger to understand about Gringotts_Head_Goblin before they spoke to Garrick_Ollivander. “i think he would have envied anyone who had a key to a Gringotts_Head_Goblin vault. i think he’d have seen it as a real symbol of belonging to the wizarding world. and don’t forget, he trusted Bellatrix_Lestrange and her husband. they were his most devoted servants before he fell, and they went looking for him after he vanished. he said it the night he came back, i heard him.” Harry_Potter rubbed his scar. “i don’t think he’d have told Bellatrix_Lestrange it was a horcrux, though. he never told Lucius_Malfoy the truth about the diary. he probably told her it was a treasured possession and asked her to place it in her vault. the safest place in the world for anything you want to hide, Rubeus_Hagrid told me … except for hogwarts.” when Harry_Potter had finished speaking, Ronald_Weasley shook his head. “you really understand him.” “bits of him,” said Harry_Potter. “bits … i just wish i’d understood Albus_Dumbledore as much. but we’ll see. come on — Garrick_Ollivander now.” Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked bewildered but impressed as they followed him across the little landing and knocked upon the door opposite William_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s. a weak “come in!” answered them. the wandmaker was lying on the twin bed farthest from the window. he had been held in the cellar for more than a year, and tortured, Harry_Potter knew, on at least one occasion. he was emaciated, the bones of his face sticking out sharply against the yellowish skin. his great silver eyes seemed vast in their sunken sockets. the hands that lay upon the blanket could have belonged to a skeleton. Harry_Potter sat down on the empty bed, beside Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. the rising sun was not visible here. the room faced the cliff-top garden and the freshly dug grave. “Garrick_Ollivander, i’m sorry to disturb you,” Harry_Potter said. “my dear boy.” Garrick_Ollivander’s voice was feeble. “you rescued us. i thought we would die in that place. i can never thank you … never thank you … enough.” “we were glad to do it.” Harry_Potter’s scar throbbed. he knew, he was certain, that there was hardly any time left in which to beat voldemort to his goal, or else to attempt to thwart him. he felt a flutter of panic … yet he had made his decision when he chose to speak to Griphook first. feigning a calm he did not feel, he groped in the pouch around his neck and took out the two halves of his broken wand. “Garrick_Ollivander, i need some help.” “anything. anything,” said the wandmaker weakly. “can you mend this? is it possible?” Garrick_Ollivander held out a trembling hand, and Harry_Potter placed the two barely connected halves into his palm. “holly and phoenix feather,” said Garrick_Ollivander in a tremulous voice. “eleven inches. nice and supple.” “yes,” said Harry_Potter. “can you — ?” “no,” whispered Garrick_Ollivander. “i am sorry, very sorry, but a wand that has suffered this degree of damage cannot be repaired by any means that i know of.” Harry_Potter had been braced to hear it, but it was a blow nevertheless. he took the wand halves back and replaced them in the pouch around his neck. Garrick_Ollivander stared at the place where the shattered wand had vanished, and did not look away until Harry_Potter had taken from his pocket the two wands he had brought from the malfoys’. “can you identify these?” Harry_Potter asked. the wandmaker took the first of the wands and held it close to his faded eyes, rolling it between his knobble-knuckled fingers, flexing it slightly. “walnut and dragon heartstring,” he said. “twelve-and-three-quarter inches. unyielding. this wand belonged to Bellatrix_Lestrange.” “and this one?” Garrick_Ollivander performed the same examination. “hawthorn and unicorn hair. ten inches precisely. reasonably springy. this was the wand of Draco_Malfoy.” “was?” repeated Harry_Potter. “isn’t it still his?” “perhaps not. if you took it —” “— i did —” “— then it may be yours. of course, the manner of taking matters. much also depends upon the wand itself. in general, however, where a wand has been won, its allegiance will change.” there was silence in the room, except for the distant rushing of the sea. “you talk about wands like they’ve got feelings,” said Harry_Potter, “like they can think for themselves.” “the wand chooses the wizard,” said Garrick_Ollivander. “that much has always been clear to those of us who have studied wandlore.” “a person can still use a wand that hasn’t chosen them, though?” asked Harry_Potter. “oh yes, if you are any wizard at all you will be able to channel your magic through almost any instrument. the best results, however, must always come where there is the strongest affinity between wizard and wand. these connections are complex. an initial attraction, and then a mutual quest for experience, the wand learning from the wizard, the wizard from the wand.” the sea gushed forward and backward; it was a mournful sound. “i took this wand from Draco_Malfoy by force,” said Harry_Potter. “can i use it safely?” “i think so. subtle laws govern wand ownership, but the conquered wand will usually bend its will to its new master.” “so i should use this one?” said Ronald_Weasley pulling Peter_Pettigrew’s wand out of his pocket and handing it to Garrick_Ollivander. “chestnut and dragon heartstring. nine-and-a-quarter inches. brittle. i was forced to make this shortly after my kidnapping, for Peter_Pettigrew. yes, if you won it, it is more likely to do your bidding, and do it well, than another wand.” “and this holds true for all wands, does it?” asked Harry_Potter. “i think so,” replied Garrick_Ollivander, his protuberant eyes upon Harry_Potter’s face. “you ask deep questions, mr. potter. wandlore is a complex and mysterious branch of magic.” “so, it isn’t necessary to kill the previous owner to take true possession of a wand?” asked Harry_Potter. Garrick_Ollivander swallowed. “necessary? no, i should not say that it is necessary to kill.” “there are legends, though,” said Harry_Potter, and as his heart rate quickened, the pain in his scar became more intense; he was sure that voldemort had decided to put his idea into action. “legends about a wand — or wands — that have passed from hand to hand by murder.” Garrick_Ollivander turned pale. against the snowy pillow he was light gray, and his eyes were enormous, bloodshot, and bulging with what looked like fear. “only one wand, i think,” he whispered. “and Tom_Riddle is interested in it, isn’t he?” asked Harry_Potter. “i — how?” croaked Garrick_Ollivander, and he looked appealingly at Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger for help. “how do you know this?” “he wanted you to tell him how to overcome the connection between our wands,” said Harry_Potter. Garrick_Ollivander looked terrified. “he tortured me, you must understand that! the cruciatus curse, i — i had no choice but to tell him what i knew, what i guessed!” “i understand,” said Harry_Potter. “you told him about the twin cores? you said he just had to borrow another wizard’s wand?” Garrick_Ollivander looked horrified, transfixed, by the amount that Harry_Potter knew. he nodded slowly. “but it didn’t work,” Harry_Potter went on. “mine still beat the borrowed wand. do you know why that is?” Garrick_Ollivander shook his head as slowly as he had just nodded. “i had … never heard of such a thing. your wand performed something unique that night. the connection of the twin cores is incredibly rare, yet why your wand should have snapped the borrowed wand, i do not know. …” “we were talking about the other wand, the wand that changes hands by murder. when Tom_Riddle realized my wand had done something strange, he came back and asked about that other wand, didn’t he?” “how do you know this?” Harry_Potter did not answer. “yes, he asked,” whispered Garrick_Ollivander. “he wanted to know everything i could tell him about the wand variously known as the deathstick, the wand of destiny, or the elder wand.” Harry_Potter glanced sideways at Hermione_Granger. she looked flabbergasted. “the dark lord,” said Garrick_Ollivander in hushed and frightened tones, “had always been happy with the wand i made him — yew and phoenix feather, thirteen-and-a-half inches — until he discovered the connection of the twin cores. now he seeks another, more powerful wand, as the only way to conquer yours.” “but he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that mine’s broken beyond repair,” said Harry_Potter quietly. “no!” said Hermione_Granger, sounding frightened. “he can’t know that, Harry_Potter, how could he — ?” “priori incantatem,” said Harry_Potter. “we left your wand and the blackthorn wand at the malfoys’, Hermione_Granger. if they examine them properly, make them re-create the spells they’ve cast lately, they’ll see that yours broke mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it, and they’ll realize that i’ve been using the blackthorn one ever since.” the little color she had regained since their arrival had drained from her face. Ronald_Weasley gave Harry_Potter a reproachful look, and said, “let’s not worry about that now —” but Garrick_Ollivander intervened. “the dark lord no longer seeks the elder wand only for your destruction, mr. potter. he is determined to possess it because he believes it will make him truly invulnerable.” “and will it?” “the owner of the elder wand must always fear attack,” said Garrick_Ollivander, “but the idea of the dark lord in possession of the deathstick is, i must admit … formidable.” Harry_Potter was suddenly reminded of how he had been unsure, when they first met, of how much he liked Garrick_Ollivander. even now, having been tortured and imprisoned by voldemort, the idea of the dark wizard in possession of this wand seemed to enthrall him as much as it repulsed him. “you — you really think this wand exists, then, Garrick_Ollivander?” asked Hermione_Granger. “oh yes,” said Garrick_Ollivander. “yes, it is perfectly possible to trace the wand’s course through history. there are gaps, of course, and long ones, where it vanishes from view, temporarily lost or hidden; but always it resurfaces. it has certain identifying characteristics that those who are learned in wandlore recognize. there are written accounts, some of them obscure, that i and other wandmakers have made it our business to study. they have the ring of authenticity.” “so you — you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a myth?” Hermione_Granger asked Hope_Howellfully. “no,” said Garrick_Ollivander. “whether it needs to pass by murder, i do not know. its history is Bloody_Baron, but that may be simply due to the fact that it is such a desirable object, and arouses such passions in wizards. immensely powerful, dangerous in the wrong hands, and an object of incredible fascination to all of us who study the power of wands.” “Garrick_Ollivander,” said Harry_Potter, “you Mykew_Gregorowitch had the elder wand, didn’t you?” told Tom_Riddle  that Garrick_Ollivander turned, if possible, even paler. he looked ghostly as he gulped. “but how — how do you — ?” “never mind how i know it,” said Harry_Potter, closing his eyes momentarily as his scar burned and he saw, for mere seconds, a vision of the main street in hogsmeade, still dark, because it was so much farther north. “you told you- know-who that Mykew_Gregorowitch had the wand?” “it was a rumor,” whispered Garrick_Ollivander. “a rumor, years and years ago, long before you were born! i believe Mykew_Gregorowitch himself started it. you can see how good it would be for business: that he was studying and duplicating the qualities of the elder wand!” “yes, i can see that,” said Harry_Potter. he stood up. “Garrick_Ollivander, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get some rest. what do you know about the deathly hallows?” “the — the what?” asked the wandmaker, looking utterly bewildered. “the deathly hallows.” “i’m afraid i don’t know what you’re talking about. is this still something to do with wands?” Harry_Potter looked into the sunken face and believed that Garrick_Ollivander was not acting. he did not know about the hallows. “thank you,” said Harry_Potter. “thank you very much. we’ll leave you to get some rest now.” Garrick_Ollivander looked stricken. “he was torturing me!” he gasped. “the cruciatus curse … you have no idea. …” “i do,” said Harry_Potter. “i really do. please get some rest. thank you for telling me all of this.” he led Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger down the staircase. Harry_Potter caught a glimpse of bill, Fleur_Delacour, Luna_Lovegood, and Dean_Thomas sitting at the table in the kitchen, cups of tea in front of them. they all looked up at Harry_Potter as he appeared in the doorway, but he merely nodded to them and continued into the garden, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger behind him. the reddish mound of earth that covered Dobby lay ahead, and Harry_Potter walked back to it, as the pain in his head built more and more powerfully. it was a huge effort now to close down the visions that were forcing themselves upon him, but he knew that he would have to resist only a little longer. he would yield very soon, because he needed to know that his theory was right. he must make only one more short effort, so that he could explain to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. “Mykew_Gregorowitch had the elder wand a long time ago,” he said. “i saw you- know-who trying to find him. when he tracked him down, he found that Mykew_Gregorowitch didn’t have it anymore: it was stolen from him by grindelwald. how grindelwald found out that Mykew_Gregorowitch had it, i don’t know — but if Mykew_Gregorowitch was stupid enough to spread the rumor, it can’t have been that difficult.” voldemort was at the gates of hogwarts; Harry_Potter could see him standing there, and see too the lamp bobbing in the pre-dawn, coming closer and closer. “and grindelwald used the elder wand to become powerful. and at the height of his power, when Albus_Dumbledore knew he was the only one who could stop him, he dueled grindelwald and beat him, and he took the elder wand.” “Albus_Dumbledore had the elder wand?” said Ronald_Weasley “but then — where is it now?” “at hogwarts,” said Harry_Potter, fighting to remain with them in the cliff-top garden. “but then, let’s go!” said Ronald_Weasley urgently. “Harry_Potter, let’s go and get it before he does!” “it’s too late for that,” said Harry_Potter. he could not help himself, but clutched his head, trying to help it resist. “he knows where it is. he’s there now.” “Harry_Potter!” Ronald_Weasley said furiously. “how long have you known this — why have we been wasting time? why did you talk to Griphook first? we could have gone — we could still go —” “no,” said Harry_Potter, and he sank to his knees in the grass. “Hermione_Granger’s right. Albus_Dumbledore didn’t want me to have it. he didn’t want me to take it. he wanted me to get the horcruxes.” “the unbeatable wand, Harry_Potter!” moaned Ronald_Weasley “i’m not supposed to … i’m supposed to get the horcruxes. …” and now everything was cool and dark: the sun was barely visible over the horizon as he glided alongside snape, up through the grounds toward the lake. “i shall join you in the castle shortly,” he said in his high, cold voice. “leave me now.” snape bowed and set off back up the path, his black cloak billowing behind him. Harry_Potter walked slowly, waiting for snape’s figure to disappear. it would not do for snape, or indeed anyone else, to see where he was going. but there were no lights in the castle windows, and he could conceal himself … and in a second he had cast upon himself a disillusionment charm that hid him even from his own eyes. and he walked on, around the edge of the lake, taking in the outlines of the beloved castle, his first kingdom, his birthright. … and here it was, beside the lake, reflected in the dark waters. the white marble tomb, an unnecessary blot on the familiar landscape. he felt again that rush of controlled euphoria, that heady sense of purpose in destruction. he raised the old yew wand: how fitting that this would be its last great act. the tomb split open from head to foot. the shrouded figure was as long and thin as it had been in life. he raised the wand again. the wrappings fell open. the face was translucent, pale, sunken, yet almost perfectly preserved. they had left his spectacles on the crooked nose: he felt amused derision. Albus_Dumbledore’s hands were folded upon his chest, and there it lay, clutched beneath them, buried with him. had the old fool imagined that marble or death would protect the wand? had he thought that the dark lord would be scared to violate his tomb? the spiderlike hand swooped and pulled the wand from Albus_Dumbledore’s grasp, and as he took it, a shower of sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of its last owner, ready to serve a new master at last. 