— chapter nineteen — the hungarian horntail the prospect of talking face to face with Sirius_Black was all that sustained Harry_Potter over the next fortnight, the only bright spot on a horizon that had never looked darker. the shock of finding himself school champion had worn off slightly now, and the fear of what was facing him was starting to sink in. the first task was drawing steadily nearer; he felt as though it was crouching ahead of him like some horrific monster, barring his path. he had never suffered nerves like these; they were way beyond anything he had felt before a quidditch match, not even his last one against slytherin, which had decided who would win the quidditch cup. Harry_Potter was finding it hard to think about the future at all, he felt as if his whole life had been leading up to, and would finish with, the first task … admittedly, he didn’t see how Sirius_Black was going to make him feel any better about having to perform an unknown piece of difficult and dangerous Magic_goblin in front of hundreds of people, but the mere sight of a friendly face would be something at the moment. Harry_Potter wrote back to Sirius_Black, saying that he would be beside the common-room fire at the time Sirius_Black had suggested, and he and Hermione_Granger spent a long time going over plans for forcing any stragglers out of the common room on the night in question. if the worst came to the worst, they were going to drop a bag of Mundungus_Fletcherbombs, but they Hope_Howelld they wouldn’t have to resort to that – filch would skin them alive. in the meantime, life became even worse for Harry_Potter within the confines of the castle, for Rita_Skeeter skeeter had published her piece about the triwizard tournament, and it had turned out to be not so much a report on the tournament, as a highly coloured life story of Harry_Potter. much of the front page had been given over to a picture of Harry_Potter; the article (continuing on pages two, six and seven) had been all about Harry_Potter, the names of the beauxbatons and durmstrang champions (misspelled) had been squashed into the last line of the article, and Cedric_Diggory hadn’t been mentioned at all. the article had appeared ten days ago, and Harry_Potter still got a sick, burning feeling of shame in his stomach every time he thought about it. Rita_Skeeter skeeter    had reported him saying an awful lot of things that he couldn’t remember ever saying in his life, let alone in that broom cupboard. ‘i suppose i get my strength from my parents, i know they’d be very proud of me if they could see me now … yes, sometimes at night i still cry about them, i’m not ashamed to admit it … i know nothing will hurt me during the tournament, because they’re watching over me …’ but Rita_Skeeter skeeter had gone even further than transforming his ‘er’s into long, sickly sentences: she had interviewed other people about him, too. Harry_Potter has at last found love at hogwarts. his close friend, Colin_Creevey Creevey_brothers'_father, says that Harry_Potter is rarely seen out of the company of one Hermione_Granger granger, a stunningly pretty muggle-born girl who, like Harry_Potter, is one of the top students in the school. from the moment the article appeared, Harry_Potter had to endure people – slytherins, mainly – quoting it at him as he passed them, and making sneering comments. ‘want a hanky, potter, in case you start crying in transfiguration?’ ‘since when have you been one of the top students in the school, potter? or is this a school you and longbottom have set up together?’ ‘hey – Harry_Potter!’ ‘yeah, that’s right,’ Harry_Potter found himself shouting, as he wheeled around in the corridor, having had just about enough. ‘i’ve just been crying my eyes out over my dead mum, and i’m just off to do a bit more …’ ‘no – it was just – you dropped your quill.’ it was cho. Harry_Potter felt the colour rising in his face. ‘oh – right – sorry,’ he muttered, taking the quill back. ‘er … good luck for tuesday,’ she said. ‘i really Hope_Howell you do well.’ which left Harry_Potter feeling extremely stupid. Hermione_Granger had come in for her fair share of unpleasantness, too, but she hadn’t yet started yelling at innocent byStanley_Shunpikeders; in fact, Harry_Potter was full of admiration for the way she was handling the situation. ‘stunningly pretty? her?’ Pansy_Parkinson parkinson had shrieked, the first time she had come face to face with Hermione_Granger after Rita_Skeeter’s article had appeared. ‘what was she judging against – a chipmunk?’     ‘ignore it,’ Hermione_Granger said in a dignified voice, holding her head in the air and stalking past the sniggering slytherin girls as though she couldn’t hear them. ‘just ignore it, Harry_Potter.’ but Harry_Potter couldn’t ignore it.Ronald_Weasleyhadn’t spoken to him at all since he had told him about snape’s detentions. Harry_Potter had half Hope_Howelld they would make things up during the two hours they were forced to pickle rats’ brains in snape’s Mundungus_Fletchereon, but that had been the day Rita_Skeeter’s article had appeared, which seemed to have confirmed ron’s belief that Harry_Potter was really enjoying all the attention. Hermione_Granger was furious with the pair of them; she went from one to the other, trying to force them to talk to each other, but Harry_Potter was adamant: he would talk toRonald_Weasleyagain only ifRonald_Weasleyadmitted that Harry_Potter hadn’t put his name in the goblet of fire, and apologised for calling him a liar. ‘i didn’t start this,’ Harry_Potter said stubbornly. ‘it’s his problem.’ ‘you miss him!’ Hermione_Granger said impatiently. ‘and i know he misses you –’ ‘miss him?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i don’t miss him …’ but this was a downright lie. Harry_Potter liked Hermione_Granger very much, but she just wasn’t the same as ron. there was much less laughter, and a lot more hanging around in the library when Hermione_Granger was your best friend. Harry_Potter still hadn’t mastered summoning charms, he seemed to have developed something of a block about them, and Hermione_Granger insisted that learning the theory would help. they consequently spent a lot of time poring over books during their lunchtimes. Viktor_Krum krum was in the library an awful lot, too, and Harry_Potter wondered what he was up to. was he studying, or was he looking for things to help him through the first task? Hermione_Granger often complained about krum being there – not that he ever bothered them, but because groups of giggling girls often turned up to spy on him from behind bookshelves, and Hermione_Granger found the noise distracting. ‘he’s not even good-looking!’ she muttered angrily, glaring at krum’s sharp profile. ‘they only like him because he’s famous! they wouldn’t look twice at him if he couldn’t do that wonky faint thing –’ ‘wronski feint,’ said Harry_Potter, through gritted teeth. quite apart from liking to get quidditch terms correct, it caused him another pang to imagine ron’s expression if he could have heard Hermione_Granger talking about wonky faints. * it is a strange thing, but when you are dreading something, and would give anything to slow down time, it has a disobliging habit of speeding up. the days until the first task seemed to slip by as though someone had fixed the clocks to work at double speed. Harry_Potter’s feeling of barely controlled panic was with him wherever he went, as ever present as the snide comments about the daily prophet article. on the saturday before the first task, all students in the third year and above were permitted to visit the village of hogsmeade. Hermione_Granger told Harry_Potter that it would do him good to get away from the castle for a bit, and Harry_Potter didn’t need much persuasion. ‘what about ron, though?’ he said. ‘don’t you want to go with him?’ ‘oh … well …’ Hermione_Granger went slightly pink. ‘i thought we might meet up with him in the three broomsticks …’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter flatly. ‘oh, Harry_Potter, this is so stupid –’ ‘i’ll come, but i’m not meeting ron, and i’m wearing my invisibility cloak.’ ‘oh, all right, then …’ Hermione_Granger snapped, ‘but i hate talking to you in that cloak, i never know if i’m looking at you or not.’ so Harry_Potter put on his invisibility cloak in the dormitory, went back downstairs, and together he and Hermione_Granger set off for hogsmeade. Harry_Potter felt wonderfully free under the cloak; he watched other students walking past them as they entered the village, most of them sporting support Cedric_Diggory diggory badges, but no horrible remarks came his way for a change, and nobody was quoting that stupid article. ‘people keep looking at me now,’ said Hermione_Granger grumpily, as they came out of honeydukes sweetshop later, eating large cream-filled chocolates. ‘they think i’m talking to myself.’ ‘don’t move your lips so much, then.’ ‘come on, please just take off your cloak for a bit. no one’s going to bother you here.’ ‘oh, yeah?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘look behind you.’ Rita_Skeeter skeeter and her photographer friend had just emerged from the three broomsticks pub. talking in low voices, they passed right by Hermione_Granger without looking at her. Harry_Potter backed into the wall of honeydukes to stop Rita_Skeeter skeeter hitting him with her crocodile-skin handbag. when they were gone, Harry_Potter said, ‘she’s staying in the village. i bet she’s coming to watch the first task.’ as he said it, his stomach flooded with a wave of molten panic. he didn’t mention this; he and Hermione_Granger hadn’t discussed what was coming in the first task much; he had the feeling she didn’t want to think about it. ‘she’s gone,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking right through Harry_Potter towards the end of the high street. ‘why don’t we go and have a butterbeer in the three broomsticks. it’s a bit cold, isn’t it? you don’t have to talk to ron!’ she added irRita_Skeeterbly, correctly interpreting his silence. the three broomsticks was packed, mainly with hogwarts students enjoying their free afternoon, but also with a variety of Magic_goblinal people Harry_Potter rarely saw anywhere else. Harry_Potter supposed that as hogsmeade was the only all-wizard village in bRita_Skeeterin, it was a bit of a haven for creatures like hags, who were not as adept as wizards at disguising themselves. it was very hard to move through crowds in the invisibility cloak, in case you accidenTall_gobliny trod on someone, which tended to lead to awkward questions. Harry_Potter edged slowly towards a spare table in the corner while Hermione_Granger went to buy drinks. on his way through the pub, Harry_Potter spotted ron, who was sitting with Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Lee_Jordan. resisting the urge to giveRonald_Weasleya good hard poke in the back of the head, he finally reached the table and sat down at it. Hermione_Granger joined him a moment later and slipped him a butterbeer under his cloak. ‘i look such an idiot, sitting here on my own,’ she muttered. ‘lucky i brought something to do.’ and she pulled out a notebook in which she had been keeping a record of s.p.e.w. members. Harry_Potter saw his and ron’s names at the top of the very short list. it seemed a very long time ago that they had sat making up those predictions together, and Hermione_Granger had turned up and appointed them secretary and treasurer. ‘you know, maybe i should try and get some of the villagers involved in s.p.e.w.,’ Hermione_Granger said thoughtfully, looking around the pub. ‘yeah, right,’ said Harry_Potter. he took a swig of butterbeer under his cloak. ‘Hermione_Granger, when are you going to give up on this s.p.e.w. stuff?’ ‘when house-elves have decent wages and working conditions!’ she hissed back. ‘you know, i’m starting to think it’s time for more direct action. i wonder how you get into the school kitchens?’ ‘no idea, ask Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley,’ said Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger lapsed into thoughtful silence, while Harry_Potter drank his butterbeer, watching the people in the pub. all of them looked cheerful and relaxed. Ernest_Prangmacmillan and Hannah_Abbott abbott were swapping chocolate frog cards at a nearby table, both of them sporting support Cedric_Diggory diggory badges on their cloaks. right over by the door he sawCho_Changand a large group of her ravenclaw friends. she wasn’t wearing a Cedric_Diggory badge, though … this cheered Harry_Potter up very slightly … what wouldn’t he have given to be one of these people, sitting around laughing and talking, with nothing to worry about but homework? he imagined how it would have felt to be here if his name hadn’t come out of the goblet of fire. he wouldn’t be wearing the invisibility cloak, for one thing.Ronald_Weasleywould be sitting with him. the three of them would probably be happily imagining what deadly dangerous task the school champions would be facing on tuesday. he’d have been really looking forward to it, watching them do whatever it was … cheering on Cedric_Diggory with everyone else, safe in a seat at the back of the Stanley_Shunpikeds … he wondered how the other champions were feeling. every time he had seen Cedric_Diggory lately, he had been surrounded by admirers, and looking nervous but excited. Harry_Potter glimpsed Fleur_Delacour delacour from time to time in the corridors; she looked exactly as she always did, haughty and unruffled. and krum just sat in the library, poring over books. Harry_Potter thought of Sirius_Black, and the tight, tense knot in his chest seemed to ease slightly. he would be speaking to him in just over twelve hours, for tonight was the night they were meeting at the common-room fire – assuming nothing went wrong, as everything else had done lately … ‘look, it’s Rubeus_Hagrid!’ said Hermione_Granger. the back of Rubeus_Hagrid’s enormous shaggy head – he had mercifully abandoned his bunches – emerged over the crowd. Harry_Potter wondered why he hadn’t spotted him at once, as Rubeus_Hagrid was so large, but Stanley_Shunpikeding up carefully, he saw that Rubeus_Hagrid had been leaning low, talking to professor moody. Rubeus_Hagrid had his usual enormous tankard in front of him, but moody was drinking from his hip-flask. madam Rosmerta, the pretty landlady, didn’t seem to think much of this; she was looking askance at moody as she collected glasses from tables around them. perhaps she thought it was an insult to her mulled mead, but Harry_Potter knew better. moody had told them all during their last defence against the dark arts lesson that he preferred to prepare his own food and drink at all times, as it was so easy for dark wizards to poison an unattended cup. as Harry_Potter watched, he saw Rubeus_Hagrid and moody get up to leave. he waved, then remembered that Rubeus_Hagrid couldn’t see him. moody, however, paused, his Magic_goblinal eye on the corner where Harry_Potter was Stanley_Shunpikeding. he tapped Rubeus_Hagrid in the small of the back (being unable to reach his shoulder), muttered something to him, and then the pair of them made their way back across the pub towards Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger’s table. ‘all right, Hermione_Granger?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid loudly. ‘hello,’ said Hermione_Granger, smiling back. moody limped around the table and bent down; Harry_Potter thought he was reading the s.p.e.w. notebook, until he muttered, ‘nice cloak, potter.’ Harry_Potter stared at him in amazement. the large chunk missing from moody’s nose was particularly obvious at a few inches’ diStanley_Shunpikece. moody grinned. ‘can your eye – i mean, can you –?’ ‘yeah, it can see through invisibility cloaks,’ moody said quietly. ‘and it’s come in useful at times, i can tell you.’ Rubeus_Hagrid was beaming down at Harry_Potter, too. Harry_Potter knew Rubeus_Hagrid couldn’t see him, but moody had obviously told Rubeus_Hagrid he was there. Rubeus_Hagrid now bent down on the pretext of reading the s.p.e.w. notebook as well, and said in a whisper so low that only Harry_Potter could hear it, ‘Harry_Potter, meet me tonight at midnight at me cabin. wear that cloak.’ straightening up, Rubeus_Hagrid said loudly, ‘nice ter see yeh, Hermione_Granger,’ winked, and departed. moody followed him. ‘why does he want me to meet him at midnight?’ Harry_Potter said, very surprised. ‘does he?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking startled. ‘i wonder what he’s up to? i don’t know whether you should go, Harry_Potter …’ she looked nervously around, and hissed, ‘it might make you late for Sirius_Black.’ it was true that going down to Rubeus_Hagrid’s at midnight would mean cutting his meeting with Sirius_Black very fine indeed; Hermione_Granger suggested sending Hedwig down to Rubeus_Hagrid’s to tell him he couldn’t go – always assuming she would consent to take the note, of course – Harry_Potter, however, thought it better just to be quick at whatever Rubeus_Hagrid wanted him for. he was very curious to know what this might be; Rubeus_Hagrid had never asked Harry_Potter to visit him so late at night. * at half past eleven that evening, Harry_Potter, who had pretended to go up to bed early, pulled the invisibility cloak back over himself and crept back downstairs through the common room. quite a few people were still in there. the Creevey_brothers'_father brothers had managed to get hold of a stack of support Cedric_Diggory diggory badges, and were trying to bewitch them to make them say support Harry_Potter potter instead. so far, however, all they had managed to do was get the badges stuck on potter stinks. Harry_Potter crept past them to the portrait hole and waited for a minute or so, keeping an eye on his watch. then Hermione_Granger opened the Fat_Lady for him from outside as they had planned. he slipped past her with a whispered ‘thanks!’ and set off through the castle. the grounds were very dark. Harry_Potter walked down the lawn towards the lights shining in Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. the inside of the enormous beauxbatons carriage was also lit up; Harry_Potter could hear madame maxime talking inside it as he knocked on Rubeus_Hagrid’s front door. ‘you there, Harry_Potter?’ Rubeus_Hagrid whispered, opening the door and looking around. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, slipping inside the cabin and pulling the cloak down off his head. ‘what’s up?’ ‘got summat ter show yeh,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. there was an air of enormous excitement about Rubeus_Hagrid. he was wearing a flower that resembled an oversized artichoke in his buttonhole. it looked as though he had abandoned the use of axle grease, but he had certainly attempted to comb his hair – Harry_Potter could see the comb’s broken teeth tangled in it. ‘what’re you showing me?’ Harry_Potter said warily, wondering if the skrewts had laid eggs, or Rubeus_Hagrid had managed to buy another giant three-headed dog off a stranger in a pub. ‘come with me, keep quiet an’ keep yerself covered with that cloak,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘we won’ take Fang, he won’ like it …’ ‘listen, Rubeus_Hagrid, i can’t stay long … i’ve got to be back up at the castle for one o’clock –’ but Rubeus_Hagrid wasn’t listening; he was opening the cabin door and striding off into the night. Harry_Potter hurried to follow and found, to his great surprise, that Rubeus_Hagrid was leading him to the beauxbatons carriage. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, what –?’ ‘shhh!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, and he knocked three times on the door bearing the crossed, golden wands. madame maxime opened it. she was wearing a silk shawl wrapped around her massive shoulders. she smiled when she saw Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘ah, ’agrid … it is time?’ ‘bong-sewer,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, beaming at her, and holding out a hand to help her down the golden steps. madame maxime closed the door behind her, Rubeus_Hagrid offered her his arm, and they set off around the edge of the paddock containing madame maxime’s giant winged horses, with Harry_Potter, toTall_gobliny bewildered, running to keep up with them. had Rubeus_Hagrid wanted to show him madame maxime? he could see her any old time he wanted … she wasn’t exactly hard to miss … but it seemed that madame maxime was in for the same treat as Harry_Potter, because after a while she said playfully, ‘wair is it you are taking me, ’agrid?’ ‘yeh’ll enjoy this,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid gruffly. ‘worth seein’, trust me. on’y – don’ go tellin’ anyone i showed yeh, right? yeh’re not s’posed ter know.’ ‘of course not,’ said madame maxime, fluttering her long black eyelashes. and still they walked, Harry_Potter getting more and more irRita_Skeeterble as he jogged along in their wake, checking his watch every now and then. Rubeus_Hagrid had some harebrained scheme in hand, which might make him miss Sirius_Black. if they didn’t get there soon, he was going to turn around, go straight back to the castle, and leave Rubeus_Hagrid to enjoy his moonlit stroll with madame maxime … but then – when they had walked so far around the perimeter of the forest that the castle and the lake were out of sight – Harry_Potter heard something. men were shouting up ahead … then came a deafening, ear-splitting roar … Rubeus_Hagrid led madame maxime around a clump of trees, and came to a halt. Harry_Potter hurried up alongside them – for a split second, he thought he was seeing bonfires, and men darting around them – and then his mouth fell open. dragons. four fully grown, enormous, vicious-looking dragons were rearing on their hind legs inside an enclosure fenced with thick planks of wood, roaring and snorting – torrents of fire were shooting into the dark sky from their open, Fanged mouths, fifty feet above the ground on their outstretched necks. there was a silvery blue one with long, pointed horns, snapping and snarling at the wizards on the ground; a smooth-scaled green one, which was writhing and stamping with all its might; a red one with an odd fringe of fine gold spikes around its face, which was shooting mushroom-shaped fire clouds into the air, and a gigantic black one, more lizard-like than the others, which was nearest to them. at least thirty wizards, seven or eight to each dragon, were attempting to control them, pulling on the chains connected to heavy leather straps around their necks and legs. mesmerised, Harry_Potter looked up, high above him, and saw the eyes of the black dragon, with vertical pupils like a cat’s, bulging with either fear or rage, he couldn’t tell which … it was making a horrible noise, a yowling, screeching scream … ‘keep back there, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ yelled a wizard near the fence, straining on the chain he was holding. ‘they can shoot fire at a range of twenty feet, you know! i’ve seen this horntail do forty!’ ‘isn’ it beautiful?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid softly. ‘it’s no good!’ yelled another wizard. ‘stunning spells, on the count of three!’ Harry_Potter saw each of the dragon-keepers pull out his wand. ‘stupefy!’ they shouted in unison, and the stunning spells shot into the darkness like fiery rockets, bursting in showers of stars on the dragons’ scaly hides – Harry_Potter watched the dragon nearest to them teeter dangerously on its back legs; its jaws stretched wide in a suddenly silent howl; its nostrils were suddenly devoid of flame, though still smoking – then, very slowly, it fell – several tons of sinewy, scaly black dragon hit the ground with a thud that Harry_Potter could have sworn had made the trees behind him quake. the dragon-keepers lowered their wands and walked forwards to their fallen charges, each of which was the size of a small hill. they hurried to tighten the chains and fasten them securely to iron pegs, which they forced deep into the ground with their wands. ‘wan’ a closer look?’ Rubeus_Hagrid asked madame maxime excitedly. the pair of them moved right up to the fence, and Harry_Potter followed. the wizard who had warned Rubeus_Hagrid not to come any closer turned, and Harry_Potter realised who it was – Charles_Weasley weasley. ‘all right, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ he panted, coming over to talk. ‘they should be ok now – we put them out with a sleeping draught on the way here, thought it might be better for them to wake up in the dark and the quiet – but, like you saw, they weren’t happy, not happy at all –’ ‘what breeds you got here, Charles_Weasley?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, gazing at the closest dragon – the black one – with something close to reverence. its eyes were still just open. Harry_Potter could see a strip of gleaming yellow beneath its wrinkled black eyelid. ‘this is a hungarian horntail,’ said Charles_Weasley. ‘there’s a common welsh green over there, the smaller one – a swedish short-snout, that blue grey – and a chinese fireball, that’s the red.’ Charles_Weasley looked around; madame maxime was strolling away around the edge of the enclosure, gazing at the stunned dragons. ‘i didn’t know you were bringing her, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ Charles_Weasley said, frowning. ‘the champions aren’t supposed to know what’s coming – she’s bound to tell her student, isn’t she?’ ‘jus’ thought she’d like ter see ’em,’ shrugged Rubeus_Hagrid, still gazing, enraptured, at the dragons. ‘really romantic date, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Charles_Weasley, shaking his head. ‘four …’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, ‘so it’s one fer each o’ the champions, is it? what’ve they gotta do – fight ’em?’ ‘just get past them, i think,’ said Charles_Weasley. ‘we’ll be on hand if it gets nasty, extinguishing spells at the ready. they wanted nesting mothers, i don’t know why … but i tell you this, i don’t envy the one who gets the horntail. vicious thing. its back end’s as dangerous as its front, look.’ Charles_Weasley pointed towards the horntail’s tail, and Harry_Potter saw long, bronze- coloured spikes protruding along it every few inches. five of Charles_Weasley’s fellow keepers staggered up to the horntail at that moment, carrying a clutch of huge granite-grey eggs between them in a blanket. they placed them carefully at the horntail’s side. Rubeus_Hagrid let out a moan of longing. ‘i’ve got them counted, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Charles_Weasley, sternly. then he said, ‘how’s Harry_Potter?’ ‘fine,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. he was still gazing at the eggs. ‘just Hope_Howell he’s still fine after he’s faced this lot,’ said Charles_Weasley grimly, looking out over the dragons’ enclosure. ‘i didn’t dare tell mum what he’s got to do for the first task, she’s already having kittens about him …’ Charles_Weasley imitated his mother’s anxious voice. ‘“how could they let him enter that tournament, he’s much too young! i thought they were all safe, i thought there was going to be an age limit!” she was in floods after that daily prophet article about him. “he still cries about his parents! oh, bless him, i never knew!”’ Harry_Potter had had enough. trusting to the fact that Rubeus_Hagrid wouldn’t miss him, with the attractions of four dragons and madame maxime to occupy him, he turned silently, and began to walk away, back to the castle. he didn’t know whether he was glad he’d seen what was coming or not. perhaps this way was better. the first shock was over now. maybe if he’d seen the dragons for the first time on tuesday, he would have passed out cold in front of the whole school … but maybe he would anyway … he was going to be armed with his wand – which just now, felt like nothing more than a narrow strip of wood – against a fifty-foot-high, scaly, spike-ridden, fire- breathing dragon. and he had to get past it. with everyone watching. how? Harry_Potter sped up, skirting the edge of the forest; he had just under fifteen minutes to get back to the fireside and talk to Sirius_Black, and he couldn’t remember, ever, wanting to talk to someone more than he did right now – when, without warning, he ran into something very solid. Harry_Potter fell backwards, his glasses askew, clutching the cloak around him. a voice nearby said, ‘ouch! who’s there?’ Harry_Potter hastily checked that the cloak was covering him and lay very still, staring up at the dark outline of the wizard he had hit. he recognised the goatee … it was karkaroff. ‘who’s there?’ said karkaroff again, very suspiciously, looking around in the darkness. Harry_Potter remained still and silent. after a minute or so, karkaroff seemed to decide that he had hit some sort of animal; he was looking around at waist height, as though expecting to see a dog. then he crept back under the cover of the trees, and started to edge forwards towards the place where the dragons were. very slowly and very carefully, Harry_Potter got to his feet and set off again, as fast as he could without making too much noise, hurrying through the darkness back towards hogwarts. he had no doubt whatsoever what karkaroff was up to. he had sneaked off his ship to try and find out what the first task was going to be. he might even have spotted Rubeus_Hagrid and madame maxime heading off around the forest together – they were hardly difficult to spot at a diStanley_Shunpikece … and now all karkaroff had to do was follow the sound of voices, and he, like madame maxime, would know what was in store for the champions. by the looks of it, the only champion who would be facing the unknown on tuesday was Cedric_Diggory. Harry_Potter reached the castle, slipped in through the front doors and began to climb the marble stairs; he was very out of breath, but he didn’t dare slow down … he had less than five minutes to get up to the fire … ‘balderdash!’ he gasped at the Fat_Lady, who was snoozing in her frame in front of the portrait hole. ‘if you say so,’ she muttered sleepily, without opening her eyes, and the picture swung forwards to admit him. Harry_Potter climbed inside. the common room was deserted, and, judging by the fact that it smelled quite normal, Hermione_Granger had not needed to set off any Mundungus_Fletcherbombs to ensure that he and Sirius_Black got privacy. Harry_Potter pulled off the invisibility cloak and threw himself into an armchair in front of the fire. the room was in semi-darkness; the flames were the only source of light. nearby, on a table, the support Cedric_Diggory diggory badges the Creevey_brothers'_fathers had been trying to improve were glinting in the firelight. they now read potter really stinks. Harry_Potter looked back into the flames, and jumped. Sirius_Black’ head was sitting in the fire. if Harry_Potter hadn’t seen mr diggory do exactly this back in the weasleys’ kitchen, it would have scared him out of his wits. instead, his face breaking into the first smile he had worn for days, he scrambled out of his chair, crouched down by the hearth and said, ‘Sirius_Black – how’re you doing?’ Sirius_Black looked different from Harry_Potter’s memory of him. when they had said goodbye, Sirius_Black’ face had been gaunt and sunken, surrounded by a quantity of long, black, matted hair – but the hair was short and clean now, Sirius_Black’ face was fuller, and he looked younger, much more like the only photograph Harry_Potter had of him, which had been taken at James_Potter_I and Lily_J._Potter’ wedding. ‘never mind me, how are you?’ said Sirius_Black seriously. ‘i’m –’ for a second, Harry_Potter tried to say ‘fine’ – but he couldn’t do it. before he could stop himself, he was talking more than he’d talked in days – about how no one believed he hadn’t entered the tournament of his own free will, how Rita_Skeeter skeeter had lied about him in the daily prophet, how he couldn’t walk down a corridor without being sneered at – and about ron,Ronald_Weasleynot believing him, ron’s jealousy … ‘… and now Rubeus_Hagrid’s just shown me what’s coming in the first task, and it’s dragons, Sirius_Black, and i’m a goner,’ he finished desperately. Sirius_Black looked at him, eyes full of concern, eyes which had not yet lost the look that azkaban had given them – that deadened, haunted look. he had let Harry_Potter talk himself into silence without interruption, but now he said, ‘dragons we can deal with, Harry_Potter, but we’ll get to that in a minute – i haven’t got long here … i’ve broken into a wizarding house to use the fire, but they could be back at any time. there are things i need to warn you about.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter, feeling his spirits slip a further few notches … surely there could be nothing worse than dragons coming? ‘karkaroff,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘Harry_Potter, he was a death eater. you know what death eaters are, don’t you?’ ‘yes – he – what?’ ‘he was caught, he was in azkaban with me, but he got released. i’d bet everything that’s why Albus_Dumbledore wanted an auror at hogwarts this year – to keep an eye on him. moody caught karkaroff. put him into azkaban in the first place.’ ‘karkaroff got released?’ Harry_Potter said slowly – his brain seemed to be struggling to absorb yet another piece of shocking information. ‘why did they release him?’ ‘he did a deal with the ministry of Magic_goblin,’ said Sirius_Black bitterly. ‘he said he’d seen the error of his ways, and then he named names … he put a load of other people into azkaban in his place … he’s not very popular in there, i can tell you. and since he got out, from what i can tell, he’s been teaching the dark arts to every student who passes through that school of his. so watch out for the durmstrang champion as well.’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, slowly. ‘but … are you saying karkaroff put my name in the goblet? because if he did, he’s a really good actor. he seemed furious about it. he wanted to stop me competing.’ ‘we know he’s a good actor,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘because he convinced the ministry of Magic_goblin to set him free, didn’t he? now, i’ve been keeping an eye on the daily prophet, Harry_Potter –’ ‘you and the rest of the world,’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘– and, reading between the lines of that skeeter woman’s article last month, moody was attacked the night before he started at hogwarts. yes, i know she says it was another false alarm,’ Sirius_Black said hastily, seeing Harry_Potter about to speak, ‘but i don’t think so, somehow. i think someone tried to stop him getting to hogwarts. i think someone knew their job would be a lot more difficult with him around. and no one’s going to look into it too closely, mad- eye’s heard intruders a bit too often. but that doesn’t mean he can’t still spot the real thing. moody was the best auror the ministry ever had.’ ‘so … what are you saying?’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘karkaroff’s trying to kill me? but – why?’ Sirius_Black hesitated. ‘i’ve been hearing some very strange things,’ he said slowly.‘the death eaters seem to be a bit more active than usual lately. they showed themselves at the quidditch world cup, didn’t they? someone set off the dark mark … and then – did you hear about that ministry of Magic_goblin witch who’s gone missing?’ ‘Bertha_Jorkins jorkins?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘exactly … she disappeared in albania, and that’s definitely where voldemort was rumoured to be last … and she would have known the triwizard tournament was coming up, wouldn’t she?’ ‘yeah, but … it’s not very likely she’d have walked straight into voldemort, is it?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘listen, i knew Bertha_Jorkins jorkins,’ said Sirius_Black grimly. ‘she was at hogwarts when i was, a few years above your dad and me. and she was an idiot. very nosy, but no brains, none at all. it’s not a good combination, Harry_Potter. i’d say she’d be very easy to lure into a trap.’ ‘so … so voldemort could have found out about the tournament?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘is that what you mean? you think karkaroff might be here on his orders?’ ‘i don’t know,’ said Sirius_Black slowly, ‘i just don’t know … karkaroff doesn’t strike me as the type who’d go back to voldemort unless he knew voldemort was powerful enough to protect him. but whoever put your name in that goblet did it for a reason, and i can’t help thinking the tournament would be a very good way to attack you, and make it look like an accident.’ ‘looks like a really good plan from where i’m Stanley_Shunpikeding,’ said Harry_Potter bleakly. ‘they’ll just have to Stanley_Shunpiked back and let the dragons do their stuff.’ ‘right – these dragons,’ said Sirius_Black, speaking very quickly now. ‘there’s a way, Harry_Potter. don’t be tempted to try a stunning spell – dragons are strong and too powerfully Magic_goblinal to be knocked out by a single stunner. you need about half-a-dozen wizards at a time to overcome a dragon –’ ‘yeah, i know, i just saw,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but you can do it alone,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘there is a way, and a simple spell’s all you need. just –’ but Harry_Potter held up a hand to silence him, his heart suddenly pounding as though it would burst. he could hear footsteps coming down the spiral staircase behind him. ‘go!’ he hissed at Sirius_Black. ‘ go! there’s someone coming!’ Harry_Potter scrambled to his feet, hiding the fire – if someone saw Sirius_Black’ face within the walls of hogwarts, they would raise an almighty uproar – the ministry would get dragged in – he, Harry_Potter, would be questioned about Sirius_Black’ whereabouts – Harry_Potter heard a tiny pop in the fire behind him, and knew Sirius_Black had gone – he watched the bottom of the spiral staircase – who had decided to go for a stroll at one o’clock in the morning, and stopped Sirius_Black telling him how to get past a dragon? it was ron. dressed in his maroon paisley pyjamas,Ronald_Weasleystopped dead facing Harry_Potter across the room, and looked around. ‘who were you talking to?’ he said. ‘what’s that got to do with you?’ Harry_Potter snarled. ‘what are you doing down here at this time of night?’ ‘i just wondered where you –’Ronald_Weasleybroke off, shrugging. ‘nothing. i’m going back to bed.’ ‘just thought you’d come nosing around, did you?’ Harry_Potter shouted. he knew thatRonald_Weasleyhad no idea what he’d walked in on, knew he hadn’t done it on purpose, but he didn’t care – at this moment he hated everything about ron, right down to the several inches of bare ankle showing beneath his pyjama trousers. ‘sorry about that,’ said ron, his face reddening with anger. ‘should’ve realised you didn’t want to be disturbed. i’ll let you get on with practising for your next interview in peace.’ Harry_Potter seized one of the potter really stinks badges off the table and chucked it, as hard as he could, across the room. it hitRonald_Weasleyon the forehead and bounced off. ‘there you go,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘something for you to wear on tuesday. you might even have a scar now, if you’re lucky … that’s what you want, isn’t it?’ he strode across the room towards the stairs; he half expectedRonald_Weasleyto stop him, he would even have likedRonald_Weasleyto throw a punch at him, butRonald_Weasleyjust stood there in his too small pyjamas, and Harry_Potter, having stormed upstairs, lay awake in bed fuming for a long time afterwards, and didn’t hear him come up to bed. 