— chapter twenty-six — the second task ‘you said you’d already worked out that egg clue!’ said Hermione_Granger indignantly. ‘keep your voice down!’ said Harry_Potter crossly. ‘i just need to – sort of fine- tune it, all right?’ he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were sitting at the very back of the charms class with a table to themselves. they were supposed to be practising the opposite of the summoning charm today – the banishing charm. owing to the potential for nasty accidents when objects kept flying across the room, professor flitwick had given each student a stack of cushions on which to practise, the theory being that these wouldn’t hurt anyone if they went off target. it was a good theory, but it wasn’t working very well. Neville_Longbottom’s aim was so poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier things flying across the room – professor flitwick, for instance. ‘just forget the egg for a minute, all right?’ Harry_Potter hissed, as professor flitwick went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large cabinet. ‘i’m trying to tell you about snape and moody …’ this class was ideal cover for a private conversation, as everyone was having far too much fun to pay them any attention. Harry_Potter had been recounting his adventures of the previous night in whispered instalments for the last half an hour. ‘snape said moody’s searched his office as well?’ Ronald_Weasley whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it soared into the air and knocked Parvati_Patil’s hat off). ‘what … d’you reckon moody’s here to keep an eye on snape as well as karkaroff?’ ‘well, i dunno if that’s what Albus_Dumbledore asked him to do, but he’s definitely doing it,’ said Harry_Potter, waving his wand without paying much attention, so that his cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk. ‘moody said Albus_Dumbledore only lets snape stay here because he’s giving him a second chance or something …’ ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into    the air, ricocheting off the chandelier and dropping heavily onto flitwick’s desk. ‘Harry_Potter … maybe moody thinks snape put your name in the goblet of fire!’ ‘oh, Ronald_Weasley’ said Hermione_Granger, shaking her head sceptically, ‘we thought snape was trying to kill Harry_Potter before, and it turned out he was saving Harry_Potter’s life, remember?’ she banished a cushion and it flew across the room and landed in the box they were all supposed to be aiming at. Harry_Potter looked at Hermione_Granger, thinking … it was true that snape had saved his life once, but the odd thing was, snape definitely loathed him, just as he’d loathed Harry_Potter’s father when they had been at school together. snape loved taking points from Harry_Potter, and had certainly never missed an opportunity to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he should be suspended from the school. ‘i don’t care what moody says,’ Hermione_Granger went on, ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s not stupid. he was right to trust Rubeus_Hagrid and professor lupin, even though loads of people wouldn’t have given them jobs, so why shouldn’t he be right about snape, even if snape is a bit –’ ‘– evil,’ said Ronald_Weasley promptly. ‘come on, Hermione_Granger, why are all these dark- wizard-catchers searching his office, then?’ ‘why has mr crouch been pretending to be ill?’ said Hermione_Granger, ignoring Ronald_Weasley ‘it’s a bit funny, isn’t it, that he can’t manage to come to the yule ball, but he can get up here in the middle of the night when he wants to?’ ‘you just don’t like crouch because of that elf, Winky,’ said Ronald_Weasley sending a cushion soaring into the window. ‘you just want to think snape’s up to something,’ said Hermione_Granger, sending her cushion zooming neatly into the box. ‘i just want to know what snape did with his first chance, if he’s on his second one,’ said Harry_Potter grimly, and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew straight across the room, and landed neatly on top of Hermione_Granger’s. * obedient to Sirius_Black’ wish of hearing about anything odd at hogwarts, Harry_Potter sent him a letter by brown owl that night, explaining all about mr crouch breaking into snape’s office, and moody and snape’s conversation. then Harry_Potter turned his attention in earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty-fourth of february. Ronald_Weasley quite liked the idea of using the summoning charm again – Harry_Potter had explained about aqualungs, and Ronald_Weasley couldn’t see why Harry_Potter shouldn’t summon one from the nearest muggle town. Hermione_Granger squashed this plan by pointing out that, in the unlikely event that Harry_Potter managed to learn how to operate an aqualung within the set limit of an hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the international code of wizarding secrecy – it was too much to Hope_Howell that no muggles would spot an aqualung zooming across the countryside to hogwarts. ‘of course, the ideal solution would be for you to transfigure yourself into a submarine or something,’ she said. ‘if only we’d done human transfiguration already! but i don’t think we start that until sixth year, and it can go badly wrong if you don’t know what you’re doing …’ ‘yeah, i don’t fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my head,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i s’pose i could always attack someone in front of moody, he might do it for me …’ ‘i don’t think he’d let you choose what you wanted to be turned into, though,’ said Hermione_Granger seriously. ‘no, i think your best chance is some sort of charm.’ so Harry_Potter, thinking that he would soon have had enough of the library to last him a lifetime, buried himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking for any spell that might enable a human to survive without oxygen. however, though he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger searched through their lunchtimes, evenings and whole weekends – though Harry_Potter asked professor Minerva_McGonagall for a note of permission to use the restricted section, and even asked the irRita_Skeeterble, vulture-like librarian, madam Irma_Pince, for help – they found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry_Potter to spend an hour underwater and live to tell the tale. familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb Harry_Potter now, and he was finding it difficult to concentrate in lessons again. the lake, which Harry_Potter had always taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a classroom window, a great, iron-grey mass of chilly water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to seem as distant as the moon. just as it had done before he had faCedric_Diggory the horntail, time was slipping away as though somebody had bewitched the clocks to go extra fast. there was a week to go before february the twenty-fourth (there was still time) … there were five days to go (he was bound to find something soon) … three days to go (please let me find something … please …). with two days left, Harry_Potter started to go off food again. the only good thing about breakfast on monday was the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius_Black. he pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the shortest letter Sirius_Black had ever written to him. send date of next hogsmeade weekend by return owl. Harry_Potter turned the parchment over and looked at the back, hoping to see something else, but it was blank. ‘weekend after next,’ whispered Hermione_Granger, who had read the note over Harry_Potter’s shoulder. ‘here – take my quill and send this owl back straight away.’ Harry_Potter scribbled the dates down on the back of Sirius_Black’ letter, tied it back onto the brown owl’s leg, and watched it take flight again. what had he expected? advice on how to survive underwater? he had been so intent on telling Sirius_Black all about snape and moody, he had completely forgotten to mention the egg’s clue. ‘what’s he want to know about the next hogsmeade weekend for?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘dunno,’ said Harry_Potter dully. the momentary happiness that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had died. ‘come on … care of magical creatures.’ whether Rubeus_Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended_Skrewts, or because there were now only two skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he could do anything that professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank could, Harry_Potter didn’t know, but he had been continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he’d returned to work. it turned out that Rubeus_Hagrid knew quite as much about unicorns as he did about monsters, though it was clear that he found their lack of poisonous Fangs disappointing. today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals. unlike full-grown unicorns, they were pure gold. Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown went into transports of delight at the sight of them, and even Pansy_Parkinson had to work hard to conceal how much she liked them. ‘easier ter spot than the adults,’ Rubeus_Hagrid told the class. ‘they turn silver when they’re abou’ two years old, an’ they grow horns at aroun’ four. don’ go pure white ’til they’re full-grown, round about seven. they’re a bit more trustin’ when they’re babies … don’ mind boys so much … c’mon, move in a bit, yeh can pat ’em if yeh want … give ’em a few o’ these sugar lumps … ‘you ok, Harry_Potter?’ Rubeus_Hagrid muttered, moving aside slightly, while most of the others swarmed around the baby unicorns. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘jus’ nervous, eh?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘bit,’ said Harry_Potter.   ‘Harry_Potter,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that Harry_Potter’s knees buckled under its weight, ‘i’d’ve bin worried before i saw yeh take on tha’ horntail, but i know now yeh can do anythin’ yeh set yer mind ter. i’m not worried at all. yeh’re goin’ ter be fine. got yer clue worked out, haven’ yeh?’ Harry_Potter nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge to confess that he didn’t have any idea how to survive at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him. he looked up at Rubeus_Hagrid – perhaps he had to go into the lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it? he looked after everything else in the grounds, after all – ‘yeh’re goin’ ter win,’ Rubeus_Hagrid growled, patting Harry_Potter’s shoulder again, so that Harry_Potter actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the muddy ground. ‘i know it. i can feel it. yeh’re goin’ ter win, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter just couldn’t bring himself to wipe the happy, confident smile off Rubeus_Hagrid’s face. pretending he was interested in the young unicorns, he forCedric_Diggory a smile in return, and moved forwards to pat them with the others. * by the evening before the second task, Harry_Potter felt as though he was trapped in a nightmare. he was fully aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to find a suitable spell, he’d have a real job mastering it overnight. how could he have let this happen? why hadn’t he got to work on the egg’s clue sooner? why had he ever let his mind wander in class – what if a teacher had once mentioned how to breathe underwater? he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger sat in the library as the sun set outside, tearing feverishly through page after page of spells, hidden from each other by the massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of them. Harry_Potter’s heart gave a huge leap every time he saw the word ‘water’ on a page, but more often than not it was merely ‘take two pints of water, half a pound of shredded mandrake leaves and a newt …’. ‘i don’t reckon it can be done,’ said ron’s voice flatly from the other side of the table. ‘there’s nothing. nothing. closest was that thing to dry up puddles and ponds, that drought charm, but that was nowhere near powerful enough to drain the lake.’ ‘there must be something,’ Hermione_Granger muttered, moving a candle closer to her. her eyes were so tired she was poring over the tiny print of olde and forgotten bewitchments and charmes with her nose about an inch from the page. ‘they’d never have set a task that was undoable.’ ‘they have,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Harry_Potter, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they’ve Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoned and see if they chuck it out. best you can do, mate.’ ‘there’s a way of doing it!’ Hermione_Granger said crossly. ‘there just has to be!’ she seemed to be taking the library’s lack of useful information on the subject as a personal insult; it had never failed her before. ‘i know what i should have done,’ said Harry_Potter, resting, face down, on saucy tricks for tricky sorts. ‘i should’ve learnt to be an animagus like Sirius_Black.’ ‘yeah, you could’ve turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘or a frog,’ yawned Harry_Potter. he was exhausted. ‘it takes years to become an animagus, and then you have to register yourself and everything,’ said Hermione_Granger vaguely, now squinting down the index of weird wizarding dilEmma_Dobbss and their solutions. ‘professor Minerva_McGonagall told us, remember … you’ve got to register yourself with the improper use of magic office … what animal you become, and your markings, so you can’t abuse it …’ ‘Hermione_Granger, i was joking,’ said Harry_Potter, wearily. ‘i know i haven’t got a chance of turning into a frog by tomorrow morning …’ ‘oh, this is no use,’ Hermione_Granger said, snapping weird wizarding dilEmma_Dobbss shut. ‘who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow into ringlets?’ ‘i wouldn’t mind,’ said Fred_Weasley’s voice. ‘be a talking point, wouldn’t it?’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked up. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had just emerged from behind some bookshelves. ‘what’re you two doing here?’ Ronald_Weasley asked. ‘looking for you,’ said George_Weasley. ‘Minerva_McGonagall wants you, Ronald_Weasley and you, Hermione_Granger.’ ‘why?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking surprised. ‘dunno … she was looking a bit grim, though,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘we’re supposed to take you down to her office,’ said George_Weasley. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger stared at Harry_Potter, who felt his stomach drop. was professor Minerva_McGonagall about to tell Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger off? perhaps she’d notiCedric_Diggory how much they were helping him, when he ought to be working out how to do the task alone? ‘we’ll meet you back in the common room,’ Hermione_Granger told Harry_Potter, as she got up to go with Ronald_Weasley – both of them looked very anxious. ‘bring as many of these books as you can, ok?’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter uneasily. by eight o’clock, madam Irma_Pince had extinguished all the lamps and came to chivvy Harry_Potter out of the library. staggering under the weight of as many books as he could carry, Harry_Potter returned to the gryffindor common room, pulled a table into a corner and continued to search. there was nothing in madcap magic for wacky warlocks … nothing in a guide to medieval sorcery … not one mention of underwater exploits in an anthology of eighteenth-century charms, or in dreadful denizens of the deep, or powers you never knew you had and what to do with them now you’ve wised up. Crookshanks crawled into Harry_Potter’s lap and curled up, purring deeply. the common room emptied slowly around Harry_Potter. people kept wishing him luck for the next morning in cheery, confident voices like Rubeus_Hagrid’s, all of them apparently convinCedric_Diggory that he was about to pull off another stunning performance like the one he had managed in the first task. Harry_Potter couldn’t answer them, he just nodded, feeling as though there was a golf-ball stuck in his throat. by ten to midnight, he was alone in the room with Crookshanks. he had searched all the remaining books, and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had not come back. it’s over, he told himself. you can’t do it. you’ll just have to go down to the lake in the morning and tell the judges … he imagined himself explaining that he couldn’t do the task. he pictured bagman’s look of round-eyed surprise, karkaroff’s satisfied, yellow-toothed smile. he could almost hear Fleur_Delacour saying, ‘i knew it … ’e is too young, ’e is only a little boy.’ he saw malfoy flashing his potter stinks badge at the front of the crowd, saw Rubeus_Hagrid’s crestfallen, disbelieving face … forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap, Harry_Potter stood up very suddenly; Crookshanks hissed angrily as he landed on the floor, gave Harry_Potter a disgusted look and stalked away with his bottle-brush tail in the air, but Harry_Potter was already hurrying up the spiral staircase to his dormitory … he would grab the invisibility cloak and go back to the library, he’d stay there all night if he had to … ‘lumos,’ Harry_Potter whispered fifteen minutes later, as he opened the library door. wand tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, pulling down more books – books of hexes and charms, books on merpeople and water monsters, books on famous witches and wizards, on magical inventions, on anything at all that might include one passing reference to underwater survival. he carried them over to a table, then set to work, searching them by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally checking his watch … one in the morning … two in the morning … the only way he could keep going was to tell himself, over and over again, next book … in the next one … the next one … * the mermaid in the painting in the prefects’ bathroom was laughing. Harry_Potter was bobbing like a cork in bubbly water next to her rock, while she held his firebolt over his head. ‘come and get it!’ she giggled maliciously. ‘come on, jump!’ ‘i can’t,’ Harry_Potter panted, snatching at the firebolt, and struggling not to sink. ‘give it to me!’ but she just poked him painfully in the side with the end of the broom, laughing at him. ‘that hurts – get off – ouch –’ ‘Harry_Potter must wake up, sir!’ ‘stop poking me –’ ‘Dobby must poke Harry_Potter, sir, he must wake up!’ Harry_Potter opened his eyes. he was still in the library; the invisibility cloak had slipped off his head as he’d slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages of where there’s a wand, there’s a way. he sat up, straightening his glasses, blinking in the bright daylight. ‘Harry_Potter needs to hurry!’ squeaked Dobby. ‘the second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry_Potter –’ ‘ten minutes?’ Harry_Potter croaked. ‘ten – ten minutes?’ he looked down at his watch. Dobby was right. it was twenty past nine. a large, dead weight seemed to fall through Harry_Potter’s chest into his stomach. ‘hurry, Harry_Potter!’ squeaked Dobby, plucking at Harry_Potter’s sleeve. ‘you is supposed to be down by the lake with the other champions, sir!’ ‘it’s too late, Dobby,’ Harry_Potter said Hope_Howelllessly. ‘i’m not doing the task, i don’t know how –’ ‘Harry_Potter will do the task!’ squeaked the elf. ‘Dobby knew Harry_Potter had not found the right book, so Dobby did it for him!’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but you don’t know what the second task is –’ ‘Dobby knows, sir! Harry_Potter has to go into the lake and find his wheezy –’ ‘find my what?’ ‘– and take his wheezy back from the merpeople!’ ‘what’s a wheezy?’ ‘your wheezy, sir, your wheezy – wheezy who is giving Dobby his jumper!’ Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he was now wearing over his shorts. ‘what?’ Harry_Potter gasped. ‘they’ve got … they’ve got Ronald_Weasley’ ‘the thing Harry_Potter will miss most, sir!’ squeaked Dobby. ‘and past an hour –’ ‘–“the prospect’s black”,’ Harry_Potter recited, staring, horror-struck, at the elf, ‘“too late, it’s gone, it won’t come back …” Dobby – what’ve i got to do?’ ‘you has to eat this, sir!’ squeaked the elf, and he put his hand in the pocket of his shorts and drew out a ball of what looked like slimy, greyish green rat tails. ‘right before you go into the lake, sir – gillyweed!’ ‘what’s it do?’ said Harry_Potter, staring at the gillyweed. ‘it will make Harry_Potter breathe underwater, sir!’ ‘Dobby,’ said Harry_Potter frantically, ‘listen – are you sure about this?’ he couldn’t quite forget that the last time Dobby had tried to ‘help’ him, he had ended up with no bones in his right arm. ‘Dobby is quite sure, sir!’ said the Winky earnestly. ‘Dobby hears things, sir, he is a house-elf, he goes all over the castle as he lights the fires and mops the floors, Dobby heard professor Minerva_McGonagall and professor moody in the staff room, talking about the next task … Dobby cannot let Harry_Potter lose his wheezy!’ Harry_Potter’s doubts vanished. jumping to his feet he pulled off the invisibility cloak, stuffed it into his bag, grabbed the gillyweed and put it into his pocket, then tore out of the library with Dobby at his heels. ‘Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!’ Dobby squealed as they burst into the corridor. ‘Dobby will be missed – good luck, Harry_Potter, sir, good luck!’ ‘see you later, Dobby!’ Harry_Potter shouted, and he sprinted along the corridor and down the stairs, three at a time. the entrance hall contained a few last-minute stragglers, all leaving the great hall after breakfast and heading through the double oak doors to watch the second task. they stared as Harry_Potter flashed past, sending Colin_Creevey and Dennis_Creevey flying as he leapt down the stone steps and out into the bright, chilly grounds. as he pounded down the lawn he saw that the seats that had encircled the dragons’ enclosure in november were now ranged along the opposite bank, rising in stands that were packed to bursting point and reflected in the lake below; the excited babble of the crowd echoed strangely across the water as Harry_Potter ran, flat out, around the other side of the lake towards the judges, who were sitting at another gold-draped table at the water’s edge. Cedric_Diggory, Fleur_Delacour and krum were beside the judges’ table, watching Harry_Potter sprint towards them. ‘i’m … here …’ Harry_Potter panted, skidding to a halt in the mud and accidentally splattering Fleur_Delacour’s robes. ‘where have you been?’ said a bossy, disapproving voice. ‘the task’s about to start!’ Harry_Potter looked around. Percy_Weasley was sitting at the judges’ table – mr crouch had failed to turn up again. ‘now, now, Percy_Weasley!’ said Ludovic_Bagman bagman, who was looking intensely relieved to see Harry_Potter. ‘let him catch his breath!’ Albus_Dumbledore smiled at Harry_Potter, but karkaroff and madame maxime didn’t look at all pleased to see him … it was obvious from the looks on their faces that they had thought he wasn’t going to turn up. Harry_Potter bent over, hands on his knees, gasping for breath; he had a stitch in his side that felt as though he had a knife between his ribs, but there was no time to get rid of it; Ludovic_Bagman bagman was now moving among the champions, spacing them along the bank at intervals of ten feet. Harry_Potter was on the very end of the line, next to krum, who was wearing swimming trunks, and was holding his wand ready. ‘all right, Harry_Potter?’ bagman whispered, as he moved Harry_Potter a few feet further away from krum. ‘know what you’re going to do?’ ‘yeah,’ Harry_Potter panted, massaging his ribs. bagman gave his shoulder a quick squeeze, and returned to the judges’ table; he pointed his wand at his throat as he had done at the world cup, said ‘sonorus!’ and his voice boomed out across the dark water towards the stands. ‘well, all our champions are ready for the second task, which will start on my whistle. they have precisely an hour to recover what has been taken from them. on the count of three, then. one … two … three!’ the whistle echoed shrilly in the cold, still air; the stands erupted with cheers and applause; without looking to see what the other champions were doing, Harry_Potter pulled off his shoes and socks, pulled the handful of gillyweed out of his pocket, stuffed it into his mouth, and waded out into the lake. the lake was so cold he felt the skin on his legs searing as though this was fire, not icy water. his sodden robes weighed him down as he walked in deeper; now the water was over his knees, and his rapidly numbing feet were slipping over silt and flat, slimy stones. he was chewing the gillyweed as hard and fast as he could; it felt unpleasantly slimy and rubbery, like octopus tentacles. waist-deep in the freezing water he stopped, swallowed, and waited for something to happen. he could hear laughter in the crowd, and knew he must look stupid, walking into the lake without showing any sign of magical power. the part of him that was still dry was covered in goosepimples; half-immersed in the icy water, a cruel breeze lifting his hair, Harry_Potter started to shiver violently. he avoided looking at the stands; the laughter was becoming louder, and there were catcalls and jeering from the slytherins … then, quite suddenly, Harry_Potter felt as though an invisible pillow had been clapped over his mouth and nose. he tried to draw breath, but it made his head spin; his lungs were empty, and he suddenly felt a piercing pain on either side of his neck – Harry_Potter clapped his hands around his throat, and felt two large slits just below his ears, flapping in the cold air … he had gills. without pausing to think, he did the only thing that made sense – he flung himself forwards into the water. the first gulp of icy lake water felt like the breath of life. his head had stopped spinning; he took another great gulp of water and felt it pass smoothly through his gills, sending oxygen back to his brain. he stretched out his hands in front of him and stared at them. they looked green and ghostly under the water, and they had become webbed. he twisted around and looked at his bare feet – they had become elongated and his toes were webbed, too; it looked as though he had sprouted flippers. the water didn’t feel icy any more, either … on the contrary, he felt pleasantly cool, and very light … Harry_Potter struck out once more, marvelling at how far and fast his flipper-like feet propelled him through the water, and noticing how clearly he could see, and how he no longer needed to blink. he had soon swum so far into the lake that he could no longer see the bottom. he flipped over, and dived into its depths. silence pressed upon his ears as he soared over a strange, dark, foggy landscape. he could only see ten feet around him, so that as he sped through the water new scenes seemed to loom suddenly out of the oncoming darkness: forests of rippling, tangled black weed, wide plains of mud littered with dull, glimmering stones. he swam deeper and deeper, out towards the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring through the eerily grey-lit water around him to the shadows beyond, where the water became opaque. small fish flickered past him like silver darts. once or twice he thought he saw something larger moving ahead of him, but when he got nearer, he discovered it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense clump of weed. there was no sign of any of the other champions, merpeople, Ronald_Weasley – nor, thankfully, the giant squid. light-green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he could see, two feet deep, like a meadow of very overgrown grass. Harry_Potter was staring unblinkingly ahead of him, trying to discern shapes through the gloom … and then, without warning, something grabbed hold of his ankle. Harry_Potter twisted his body around and saw a grindylow, a small, horned water demon, poking out of the weeds, its long fingers clutched tightly around Harry_Potter’s leg, its pointed Fangs bared – Harry_Potter stuck his webbed hand quickly inside his robes and fumbled for his wand – by the time he had grasped it, two more grindylows had risen out of the weed, had seized handfuls of Harry_Potter’s robes, and were attempting to drag him down. ‘relashio!’ Harry_Potter shouted, except that no sound came out … a large bubble issued from his mouth, and his wand, instead of sending sparks at the grindylows, pelted them with what seemed to be a jet of boiling water, for where it struck them, angry red patches appeared on their green skin. Harry_Potter pulled his ankle out of the grindylows’ grip and swam as fast as he could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water over his shoulder at random; every now and then he felt one of the grindylows snatch at his foot again, and kicked out, hard; finally, he felt his foot connect with a horned skull, and looking back, saw the dazed grindylow floating away, cross-eyed, while its fellows shook their fists at Harry_Potter, and sank back into the weed. Harry_Potter slowed down a little, slipped his wand back inside his robes and looked around, listening again. he turned full circle in the water, the silence pressing harder than ever against his eardrums. he knew he must be even deeper in the lake now, but nothing was moving except the rippling weed. ‘how are you getting on?’ Harry_Potter thought he was having a heart attack. he whipped around, and saw Myrtle_Warren floating hazily in front of him, gazing at him through her thick pearly glasses. ‘Myrtle_Warren!’ Harry_Potter tried to shout – but, once again, nothing came out of his mouth but a very large bubble. Myrtle_Warren actually giggled. ‘you want to try over there!’ she said, pointing. ‘i won’t come with you … i don’t like them much, they always chase me when i get too close …’ Harry_Potter gave her the thumbs-up to show his thanks, and set off once more, careful to swim a bit higher over the weed, to avoid any more grindylows that might be lurking there. he swam on for what felt like at least twenty minutes. he was passing over vast expanses of black mud now, which swirled murkily as he disturbed the water. then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunting mer-song. ‘an hour long you’ll have to look, and to recover what we took …’ Harry_Potter swam faster, and soon saw a large rock emerge out of the muddy water ahead. it had paintings of merpeople on it; they were carrying spears, and chasing what looked like the giant squid. Harry_Potter swam on past the rock, following the mer-song. ‘… your time’s half-gone, so tarry not lest what you seek stays here to rot …’ a cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae loomed suddenly out of the gloom on all sides. here and there at the dark windows, Harry_Potter saw faces … faces that bore no resemblance at all to the painting of the mermaid in the prefects’ bathroom … the merpeople had greyish skins and long, wild, dark green hair. their eyes were yellow, as were their broken teeth, and they wore thick ropes of pebbles around their necks. they leered at Harry_Potter as he swam past; one or two of them emerged from their caves to watch him better, their powerful, silver fishtails beating the water, spears clutched in their hands. Harry_Potter sped on, staring around, and soon the dwellings became more numerous; there were gardens of weed around some of them, and he even saw a pet grindylow tied to a stake outside one door. merpeople were emerging on all sides now, watching him eagerly, pointing at his webbed hands and gills, talking behind their hands to each other. Harry_Potter sped around a corner, and a very strange sight met his eyes. a whole crowd of merpeople were floating in front of the houses that lined what looked like a mer-version of a village square. a choir of merpeople were singing in the middle, calling the champions towards them, and behind them rose a crude sort of statue; a gigantic merperson hewn from a boulder. four people were bound tightly to the tail of the stone merperson.     ron was tied between Hermione_Granger and Cho_Chang. there was also a girl who looked no older than eight, whose clouds of silvery hair made Harry_Potter feel sure that she was Fleur_Delacour’s sister. all four of them appeared to be in a very deep sleep. their heads were lolling onto their shoulders, and fine streams of bubbles kept issuing from their mouths. Harry_Potter sped towards the hostages, half expecting the merpeople to lower their spears and charge at him, but they did nothing. the ropes of weed tying the hostages to the statue were thick, slimy and very strong. for a fleeting second he thought of the knife Sirius_Black had brought him for christmas – locked in his trunk in the castle a quarter of a mile away, no use to him whatsoever. he looked around. many of the merpeople surrounding them were carrying spears. he swam swiftly towards a seven-foot-tall merman with a long green beard and a choker of shark Fangs, and tried to mime a request to borrow the spear. the merman laughed and shook his head. ‘we do not help,’ he said in a harsh, croaky voice. ‘come on!’ Harry_Potter said fiercely (but only bubbles issued from his mouth), and he tried to pull the spear away from the merman, but the merman yanked it back, still shaking his head and laughing. Harry_Potter swirled around, staring about. something sharp … anything … there were rocks littering the lake bottom. he dived and snatched up a particularly jagged one, and returned to the statue. he began to hack at the ropes binding Ronald_Weasley and after several minutes’ hard work, they broke apart. Ronald_Weasley floated, unconscious, a few inches above the lake bottom, drifting a little in the ebb of the water. Harry_Potter looked around. there was no sign of any of the other champions. what were they playing at? why didn’t they hurry up? he turned back to Hermione_Granger, raised the jagged rock and began to hack at her bindings, too – at once, several pairs of strong grey hands seized him. half-a-dozen mermen were pulling him away from Hermione_Granger, shaking their green-haired heads and laughing. ‘you take your own hostage,’ one of them said to him. ‘leave the others …’ ‘no way!’ said Harry_Potter furiously – but only two large bubbles came out. ‘your task is to retrieve your own friend … leave the others …’ ‘she’s my friend, too!’ Harry_Potter yelled, gesturing towards Hermione_Granger, an enormous silver bubble emerging soundlessly from his lips. ‘and i don’t want them to die, either!’ cho’s head was on Hermione_Granger’s shoulder; the small silver-haired girl was ghostly green and pale. Harry_Potter struggled to fight off the mermen, but they laughed harder than ever, holding him back. Harry_Potter looked wildly around. where were the other champions? would he have time to take Ronald_Weasley to the surface, and come back down for Hermione_Granger and the others? would he be able to find them again? he looked down at his watch to see how much time was left – it had stopped working. but then the merpeople around him started pointing excitedly over his head. Harry_Potter looked up and saw Cedric_Diggory swimming towards them. there was an enormous bubble around his head, which made his features look oddly wide and stretched. ‘got lost!’ he mouthed, looking panic-stricken. ‘Fleur_Delacour and krum’re coming now!’ feeling enormously relieved, Harry_Potter watched Cedric_Diggory pull a knife out of his pocket and cut Cho_Chang free. he pulled her upwards and out of sight. Harry_Potter looked around, waiting. where were Fleur_Delacour and krum? time was getting short and, according to the song, the hostages would be lost after an hour … the merpeople started screeching excitedly. those holding Harry_Potter loosened their grip, staring behind them. Harry_Potter turned, and saw something monstrous cutting through the water towards them: a human body in swimming trunks with the head of a shark … it was krum. he appeared to have transfigured himself – but badly. the shark-man swam straight to Hermione_Granger and began snapping and biting at her ropes: the trouble was that krum’s new teeth were positioned very awkwardly for biting anything smaller than a dolphin, and Harry_Potter was quite sure that if krum wasn’t careful, he was going to rip Hermione_Granger in half. darting forwards, Harry_Potter hit krum hard on the shoulder, and held up the jagged stone. krum seized it, and began to cut Hermione_Granger free. within seconds, he had done it; he grabbed Hermione_Granger around the waist and, without a backward glance, began to rise rapidly with her towards the surface. now what? Harry_Potter thought desperately. if he could be sure that Fleur_Delacour was coming … but still no sign. there was nothing for it … he snatched up the stone, which krum had dropped, but the mermen now closed in around Ronald_Weasley and the little girl, shaking their heads at him. Harry_Potter pulled out his wand. ‘get out of the way!’ only bubbles flew out of his mouth, but he had the distinct impression that the mermen had understood him, because they suddenly stopped laughing. their yellowish eyes were fixed upon Harry_Potter’s wand, and they looked scared. there might be a lot more of them than there were of him, but Harry_Potter could tell, by the looks on their faces, that they knew no more magic than the giant squid did. ‘you’ve got until three!’ Harry_Potter shouted; a great stream of bubbles burst from him, but he held up three fingers to make sure they got the message. ‘one …’ (he put down a finger) – ‘two …’ (he put down a second) – they scattered. Harry_Potter darted forwards and began to hack at the robes binding the small girl to the statue; and at last she was free. he seized the little girl around the waist, grabbed the neck of ron’s robes, and kicked off from the bottom. it was very slow work. he could no longer use his webbed hands to propel himself forwards; he worked his flippers furiously, but Ronald_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s sister were like potato-filled sacks dragging him back down … he fixed his eyes skywards, though he knew he must still be very deep, the water above him was so dark … merpeople were rising with him. he could see them swirling around him with ease, watching him struggle through the water … would they pull him back down to the depths when the time was up? did they perhaps eat humans? Harry_Potter’s legs were seizing up with the effort to keep swimming; his shoulders were aching horribly with the effort of dragging Ronald_Weasley and the girl … he was drawing breath with extreme difficulty. he could feel pain on the sides of his neck again … he was becoming very aware of how wet the water was in his mouth … yet the darkness was definitely thinning now … he could see daylight above him … he kicked hard with his flippers and discovered that they were nothing more than feet … water was flooding through his mouth into his lungs … he was starting to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were only ten feet above him … he had to get there … he had to… Harry_Potter kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as though his muscles were screaming in protest; his very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn’t breathe, he needed oxygen, he had to keep going, he could not stop – and then he felt his head break the surface of the lake; wonderful, cold, clear air was making his wet face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as though he had never breathed properly before, and, panting, pulled Ronald_Weasley and the little girl up with him. all around him, wild, green-haired heads were emerging out of the water with him, but they were smiling at him. the crowd in the stands was making a great deal of noise; shouting and screaming, everybody seemed to be on their feet; Harry_Potter had the impression they thought that Ronald_Weasley and the little girl might be dead, but they were wrong … both of them had opened their eyes; the girl looked scared and confused, but Ronald_Weasley merely expelled a great spout of water, blinked in the bright light, turned to Harry_Potter and said, ‘wet, this, isn’t it?’ then he spotted Fleur_Delacour’s sister. ‘what did you bring her for?’ ‘Fleur_Delacour didn’t turn up. i couldn’t leave her,’ Harry_Potter panted. ‘Harry_Potter, you prat,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you didn’t take that song thing seriously, did you? Albus_Dumbledore wouldn’t have let any of us drown!’ ‘but the song said –’ ‘only to make sure you got back inside the time limit!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i Hope_Howell you didn’t waste time down there acting the hero!’ Harry_Potter felt both stupid and annoyed. it was all very well for ron; he’d been asleep, he hadn’t felt how eerie it was down in the lake, surrounded by spear- carrying merpeople who’d looked more than capable of murder. ‘c’mon,’ Harry_Potter said shortly, ‘help me with her, i don’t think she can swim very well.’ they pulled Fleur_Delacour’s sister through the water, back towards the bank where the judges stood watching, twenty merpeople accompanying them like a guard of honour, singing their horrible screechy songs. Harry_Potter could see madam pomfrey fussing over Hermione_Granger, krum, Cedric_Diggory and cho, all of whom were wrapped in thick blankets. Albus_Dumbledore and Ludovic_Bagman bagman stood beaming at Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley from the bank as they swam nearer, but Percy_Weasley, who looked very white and somehow much younger than usual, came splashing out to meet them. meanwhile madame maxime was trying to restrain Fleur_Delacour, who was quite hystEric_Munchal, fighting tooth and nail to return to the water. ‘Gabrielle_Delacour! Gabrielle_Delacour! is she alive? is she ’urt?’ ‘she’s fine!’ Harry_Potter tried to tell her, but he was so exhausted he could hardly talk, let alone shout. Percy_Weasley seized Ronald_Weasley and was dragging him back to the bank (‘gerroff, Percy_Weasley, i’m all right!’); Albus_Dumbledore and bagman were pulling Harry_Potter upright; Fleur_Delacour had broken free of madame maxime and was hugging her sister. ‘it was ze grindylows … zey attacked me … oh, Gabrielle_Delacour, i thought … i thought …’ ‘come here, you,’ said madam pomfrey’s voice; she seized Harry_Potter and pulled him over to Hermione_Granger and the others, wrapped him so tightly in a blanket that he felt as though he was in a straitJack_Sloperet, and forCedric_Diggory a measure of very hot potion down his throat. steam gushed out of his ears. ‘Harry_Potter, well done!’ Hermione_Granger cried. ‘you did it, you found out how, all by yourself!’ ‘well –’ said Harry_Potter. he would have told her about Dobby, but he had just notiCedric_Diggory karkaroff watching him. he was the only judge who had not left the table; the only judge not showing signs of pleasure and relief that Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Fleur_Delacour’s sister had got back safely. ‘yeah, that’s right,’ said Harry_Potter, raising his voice slightly so that karkaroff could hear him. ‘you haff a water-beetle in your hair, herm-own-ninny,’ said krum. Harry_Potter had the impression that krum was drawing her attention back onto himself; perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her from the lake, but Hermione_Granger brushed the beetle away impatiently and said, ‘you’re well outside the time limit, though, Harry_Potter … did it take you ages to find us?’ ‘no … i found you ok …’ Harry_Potter’s feeling of stupidity was growing. now he was out of the water, it seemed perfectly clear that Albus_Dumbledore’s safety precautions wouldn’t have permitted the death of a hostage just because their champion hadn’t turned up. why hadn’t he just grabbed Ronald_Weasley and gone? he would have been first back … Cedric_Diggory and krum hadn’t wasted time worrying about anyone else; they hadn’t taken the mer-song seriously … Albus_Dumbledore was crouching at the water’s edge, deep in conversation with what seemed to be the chief merperson, a particularly wild- and ferocious- looking female. he was making the same sort of screechy noises that the merpeople made when they were above water; clearly, Albus_Dumbledore could speak mermish. finally he straightened up, turned to his fellow judges and said, ‘a conference before we give the marks, i think.’ the judges went into a huddle. madam pomfrey had gone to rescue Ronald_Weasley from Percy_Weasley’s clutches; she led him over to Harry_Potter and the others, gave him a blanket and some pepper-up potion, then went to fetch Fleur_Delacour and her sister. Fleur_Delacour had many cuts on her face and arms, and her robes were torn, but she didn’t seem to care, nor would she allow madam pomfrey to clean them. ‘look after Gabrielle_Delacour,’ she told her, and then she turned to Harry_Potter. ‘you saved ’er,’ she said breathlessly. ‘even though she was not your ’ostage.’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, who was now heartily wishing he’d left all three girls tied to the statue. Fleur_Delacour bent down, kissed Harry_Potter twice on each cheek (he felt his face burn and wouldn’t have been surprised if steam was coming out of his ears again), then said to Ronald_Weasley ‘and you, too – you ’elped –’ ‘yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley looking extremely Hope_Howellful, ‘yeah, a bit –’ Fleur_Delacour swooped down on him, too, and kissed him. Hermione_Granger looked simply furious, but just then, Ludovic_Bagman bagman’s magically magnified voice boomed out beside them, making them all jump, and causing the crowd in the stands to go very quiet. ‘ladies and gentlemen, we have reached our decision. mer-chieftainess murcus has told us exactly what happened at the bottom of the lake, and we have therefore decided to award marks out of fifty for each of the champions, as follows … ‘miss Fleur_Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent use of the bubble-head charm, was attacked by grindylows as she approached her goal, and failed to retrieve her hostage. we award her twenty-five points.’ applause from the stands. ‘i deserved zero,’ said Fleur_Delacour throatily, shaking her magnificent head. ‘mr Cedric_Diggory, who also used the bubble-head charm, was first to return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time limit of an hour.’ enormous cheers from the hufflepuffs in the crowd; Harry_Potter saw Cho_Chang give Cedric_Diggory a glowing look. ‘we therefore award him forty-seven points.’ Harry_Potter’s heart sank. if Cedric_Diggory had been outside the time limit, he most certainly had been. ‘mr Viktor_Krum used an incomplete form of transfiguration, which was nevertheless effective, and was second to return with his hostage. we award him forty points.’ karkaroff clapped particularly hard, looking very superior. ‘mr Harry_Potter used gillyweed to great effect,’ bagman continued. ‘he returned last, and well outside the time limit of an hour. however, the merchieftainess informs us that mr potter was first to reach the hostages, and that the delay in his return was due to his determination to return all hostages to safety, not merely his own.’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger both gave Harry_Potter half-exasperated, half-commiserating looks. ‘most of the judges’ – and here, bagman gave karkaroff a very nasty look – ‘feel that this shows moral fibre and merits full marks. however … mr potter’s score is forty-five points.’ Harry_Potter’s stomach leapt – he was now tying for first place with Cedric_Diggory. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, caught by surprise, stared at Harry_Potter, then laughed and started applauding hard with the rest of the crowd. ‘there you go, Harry_Potter!’ Ronald_Weasley shouted over the noise. ‘you weren’t being thick after all – you were showing moral fibre!’ Fleur_Delacour was clapping very hard, too, but krum didn’t look very happy at all. he attempted to engage Hermione_Granger in conversation again, but she was too busy cheering Harry_Potter to listen. ‘the third and final task will take place at dusk on the twenty-fourth of june,’ continued bagman. ‘the champions will be notified of what is coming, precisely one month beforehand. thank you all for your support of the champions.’ it was over, Harry_Potter thought dazedly, as madam pomfrey began herding the champions and hostages back to the castle to get into dry clothes … it was over, he had got through … he didn’t have to worry about anything now until june the twenty-fourth … next time he was in hogsmeade, he decided, as he walked back up the stone steps into the castle, he was going to buy Dobby a pair of socks for every day of the year. 