— chapter twenty-seven — Sirius_Black returns one of the best things about the aftermath of the second task was that everybody was very keen to hear details of what had happened down in the lake, which meant that for onceRonald_Weasleywas getting to share Harry_Potter’s limelight. Harry_Potter noticed that ron’s version of events changed subtly with every retelling. at first, he gave what seemed to be the truth; it Tall_goblinied with Hermione_Granger’s story, anyway – Albus_Dumbledore had put all the hostages into a bewitched sleep in professor Minerva_McGonagall’s office, first assuring them that they would be quite safe, and would awake when they were back above the water. one week later, however,Ronald_Weasleywas telling a thrilling tale of kidnap in which he struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed merpeople who had to beat him into submission before tying him up. ‘but i had my wand hidden up my sleeve,’ he assured Padma_Patil patil, who seemed to be a lot keener onRonald_Weasleynow that he was getting so much attention, and was making a point of talking to him every time they passed in the corridors. ‘i could’ve taken those mer-idiots any time i wanted.’ ‘what were you going to do, snore at them?’ said Hermione_Granger waspishly. people had been teasing her so much about being the thing that Viktor_Krum krum would most miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood. ron’s ears went red, and he reverted thereafter to the bewitched-sleep version of events. as they entered march the weather became drier, but cruel winds skinned their hands and faces every time they went out into the grounds. there were delays in the post because the owls kept being blown off course. the brown owl that Harry_Potter had sent to Sirius_Black with the dates of the hogsmeade weekend turned up at breakfast on friday morning with half its feathers sticking up the wrong way; Harry_Potter had no sooner torn off Sirius_Black’ reply than it took flight, clearly afraid it was going to be sent outside again. Sirius_Black’ letter was almost as short as the previous one. be at stile at end of road out of hogsmeade (past dervish & banges) at     two o’clock on saturday afternoon. bring as much food as you can. ‘he hasn’t come back to hogsmeade?’ saidRonald_Weasleyincredulously. ‘it looks like it, doesn’t it?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i can’t believe him,’ said Harry_Potter tensely. ‘if he’s caught …’ ‘made it so far, though, hasn’t he?’ said ron. ‘and it’s not like the place is swarming with dementors any more.’ Harry_Potter folded up the letter, thinking. if he was honest with himself, he really wanted to see Sirius_Black again. he therefore approached the final lesson of the afternoon – double potions – feeling considerably more cheerful than he usually did when descending the steps to the Mundungus_Fletchereons. malfoy, crabbe and Goyle were Stanley_Shunpikeding in a huddle outside the classroom door with Pansy_Parkinson parkinson’s gang of slytherin girls. all of them were looking at something Harry_Potter couldn’t see and sniggering heartily. Pansy_Parkinson’s pug-like face peered excitedly around Goyle’s broad back as Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger approached. ‘there they are, there they are!’ she giggled, and the knot of slytherins broke apart. Harry_Potter saw that Pansy_Parkinson had a magazine in her hands – witch weekly. the moving picture on the front showed a curly-haired witch who was smiling toothily and pointing at a large sponge cake with her wand. ‘you might find something to interest you in there, granger!’ Pansy_Parkinson said loudly, and she threw the magazine at Hermione_Granger, who caught it, looking startled. at that moment, the Mundungus_Fletchereon door opened, and snape beckoned them all inside. Hermione_Granger, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyheaded for a table at the back of the Mundungus_Fletchereon as usual. once snape had turned his back on them to write up the ingredients of today’s potion on the blackboard, Hermione_Granger hastily riffled through the magazine under the desk. at last, in the centre pages, Hermione_Granger found what they were looking for. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyleant in closer. a colour photograph of Harry_Potter headed a short piece entitled Harry_Potter potter’s secret heartache: a boy like no other, perhaps – yet a boy suffering all the usual pangs of adolescence, writes Rita_Skeeter skeeter. deprived of love since the tragic demise of his parents, fourteen-year-old Harry_Potter potter thought he had found solace in his steady girlfriend at hogwarts, muggle-born Hermione_Granger granger. little did he know that he would shortly be suffering yet another emotional blow in a life already littered with personal loss.   miss granger, a plain but ambitious girl, seems to have a taste for famous wizards that Harry_Potter alone cannot satisfy. since the arrival at hogwarts of Viktor_Krum krum, bulgaria seeker and hero of the last world quidditch cup, miss granger has been toying with both boys’ affections. krum, who is openly smitten with the devious miss granger, has already invited her to visit him in bulgaria over the summer holidays, and insists that he has ‘never felt this way about any other girl’. however, it might not be miss granger’s doubtful natural charms which have captured these unfortunate boys’ interest. ‘she’s really ugly,’ says Pansy_Parkinson parkinson, a pretty and vivacious fourth-year student, ‘but she’d be well up to making a love potion, she’s quite brainy. i think that’s how she’s doing it.’ love potions are of course banned at hogwarts, and no doubt Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore will want to investigate these claims. in the meantime, Harry_Potter potter’s well-wishers must Hope_Howell that, next time, he bestows his heart upon a worthier candidate. ‘i told you!’Ronald_Weasleyhissed at Hermione_Granger, as she stared down at the article. ‘i told you not to annoy Rita_Skeeter skeeter! she’s made you out to be some sort of – of scarlet woman!’ Hermione_Granger stopped looking astonished and snorted with laughter. ‘scarlet woman?’ she repeated, shaking with suppressed giggles as she looked round at ron. ‘it’s what my mum calls them,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered, his ears going red again. ‘if that’s the best Rita_Skeeter can do, she’s losing her touch,’ said Hermione_Granger, still giggling, as she threw witch weekly onto the empty chair beside her. ‘what a pile of old rubbish.’ she looked over at the slytherins, who were all watching her and Harry_Potter closely across the room to see if they had been upset by the article. Hermione_Granger gave them a sarcastic smile and a wave, and she, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleystarted unpacking the ingredients they would need for their wit-sharpening potion. ‘there’s something funny, though,’ said Hermione_Granger ten minutes later, holding her pestle suspended over a bowl of scarab beetles. ‘how could Rita_Skeeter skeeter have known …?’ ‘known what?’ saidRonald_Weasleyquickly. ‘you haven’t been mixing up love potions, have you?’ ‘don’t be stupid,’ Hermione_Granger snapped, starting to pound up her beetles again. ‘no, it’s just … how did she know Viktor_Krum asked me to visit him over  the summer?’ Hermione_Granger blushed scarlet as she said this, and determinedly avoided ron’s eyes. ‘what?’ said ron, dropping his pestle with a loud clunk. ‘he asked me right after he’d pulled me out of the lake,’ Hermione_Granger muttered. ‘after he’d got rid of his shark’s head. madam pomfrey gave us both blankets and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges so they wouldn’t hear, and he said, if i wasn’t doing anything over the summer, would i like to –’ ‘and what did you say?’ said ron, who had picked up his pestle and was grinding it on the desk, a good six inches from his bowl, because he was looking at Hermione_Granger. ‘and he did say he’d never felt the same way about anyone else,’ Hermione_Granger went on, going so red now that Harry_Potter could almost feel the heat coming from her, ‘but how could Rita_Skeeter skeeter have heard him? she wasn’t there … or was she? maybe she has got an invisibility cloak, maybe she sneaked into the grounds to watch the second task …’ ‘and what did you say?’Ronald_Weasleyrepeated, pounding his pestle down so hard that it dented the desk. ‘well, i was too busy seeing whether you and Harry_Potter were ok to –’ ‘fascinating though your social life undoubtedly is, miss granger,’ said an icy voice right behind them, ‘i must ask you not to discuss it in my class. ten points from gryffindor.’ snape had glided over to their desk while they had been talking. the whole class was now looking around at them; malfoy took the opportunity to flash potter stinks across the Mundungus_Fletchereon at Harry_Potter. ‘ah … reading magazines under the table as well?’ snape added, snatching up the copy of witch weekly. ‘a further ten points from gryffindor … oh, but of course …’ snape’s black eyes glittered as they fell on Rita_Skeeter skeeter’s article. ‘potter has to keep up with his press cuttings …’ the Mundungus_Fletchereon rang with the slytherins’ laughter, and an unpleasant smile curled snape’s thin mouth. to Harry_Potter’s fury, he began to read the article aloud. ‘ Harry_Potter potter’s secret heartache … dear, dear, potter, what’s ailing you now? a boy like no other, perhaps …’ Harry_Potter could feel his face burning now. snape was pausing at the end of every sentence to allow the slytherins a hearty laugh. the article sounded ten times worse when read by snape. ‘ … Harry_Potter potter’s well-wishers must Hope_Howell that, next time, he bestows his heart upon a worthier candidate. how very touching,’ sneered snape, rolling up the magazine to continued gales of laughter from the slytherins. ‘well, i think i had better separate the three of you, so you can keep your minds on your potions rather than your tangled love lives. weasley, you stay here. miss granger, over there, beside miss parkinson. potter – that table in front of my desk. move. now.’ furious, Harry_Potter threw his ingredients and his bag into his cauldron, and dragged it up to the front of the Mundungus_Fletchereon to the empty table. snape followed, sat down at his desk and watched Harry_Potter unload his cauldron. determined not to look at snape, Harry_Potter resumed the mashing of his scarab beetles, imagining each one to have snape’s face. ‘all this press attention seems to have inflated your already overlarge head, potter,’ said snape quietly, once the rest of the class had settled down again. Harry_Potter didn’t answer. he knew snape was trying to provoke him; he had done this before. no doubt he was hoping for an excuse to take a round fifty points from gryffindor before the end of the class. ‘you might be labouring under the delusion that the entire wizarding world is impressed with you,’ snape went on, so quietly that no one else could hear him (Harry_Potter continued to pound his scarab beetles, even though he had already reduced them to a very fine powder), ‘but i don’t care how many times your picture appears in the papers. to me, potter, you are nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to be beneath him.’ Harry_Potter tipped the powdered beetles into his cauldron and started cutting up his ginger roots. his hands were shaking slightly out of anger, but he kept his eyes down, as though he couldn’t hear what snape was saying to him. ‘so i give you fair warning, potter,’ snape continued, in a softer and more dangerous voice, ‘pint-sized celebrity or not – if i catch you breaking into my office one more time –’ ‘i haven’t been anywhere near your office!’ said Harry_Potter angrily, forgetting his feigned deafness. ‘don’t lie to me,’ snape hissed, his fathomless black eyes boring into Harry_Potter’s. ‘boomslang skin. gillyweed. both come from my private stores, and i know who stole them.’ Harry_Potter stared back at snape, determined not to blink, or to look guilty. in truth, he hadn’t stolen either of these things from snape. Hermione_Granger had taken the boomslang skin back in their second year – they had needed it for the polyjuice potion – and while snape had suspected Harry_Potter at the time, he had never been able to prove it. Dobby, of course, had stolen the gillyweed. ‘i don’t know what you’re talking about,’ Harry_Potter lied coldly. ‘you were out of bed on the night my office was broken into!’ snape hissed. ‘i know it, potter! now, Alastor_Moody moody might have joined your fan club, but i will not tolerate your behaviour! one more night-time stroll into my office, potter, and you will pay!’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter coolly, turning back to his ginger roots, ‘i’ll bear that in mind if i ever get the urge to go in there.’ snape’s eyes flashed. he plunged a hand into the inside of his black robes. for one wild moment, Harry_Potter thought snape was about to pull out his wand and curse him – then he saw that snape had drawn out a small crystal bottle of a completely clear potion. Harry_Potter stared at it. ‘do you know what this is, potter?’ snape said, his eyes glittering dangerously again. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, completely honestly this time. ‘it is veRita_Skeeterserum – a truth potion so powerful that three drops would have you spilling your innermost secrets for this entire class to hear,’ said snape viciously. ‘now, the use of this potion is controlled by very strict ministry guidelines. but unless you watch your step, you might just find that my hand slips –’ he shook the crystal bottle slightly ‘– right over your evening pumpkin juice. and then, potter … then we’ll find out whether you’ve been in my office or not.’ Harry_Potter said nothing. he turned back to his ginger roots once more, picked up his knife and started slicing them again. he didn’t like the sound of that truth potion at all, and nor would he put it past snape to slip him some. he repressed a shudder at the thought of what might come spilling out of his mouth if snape did … quite apart from landing a whole lot of people in trouble – Hermione_Granger and Dobby, for a start – there were all the other things he was concealing … like the fact that he was in contact with Sirius_Black … and – his insides squirmed at the thought – how he felt aboutCho_Chang… he tipped his ginger roots into the cauldron too, and wondered whether he ought to take a leaf out of moody’s book and start drinking only from a private hip-flask. there was a knock on the Mundungus_Fletchereon door. ‘enter,’ said snape, in his usual voice. the class looked around as the door opened. professor karkaroff came in. everyone watched him as he walked up towards snape’s desk. he was twisting his finger around his goatee again, and looking agitated. ‘we need to talk,’ said karkaroff abruptly, when he had reached snape. he seemed so determined that nobody should hear what he was saying that he was barely opening his lips; it was as though he was a rather poor ventriloquist. Harry_Potter kept his eyes on his ginger roots, listening hard. ‘i’ll talk to you after my lesson, karkaroff –’ snape muttered, but karkaroff interrupted him. ‘i want to talk now, while you can’t slip off, Severus_Snape. you’ve been avoiding me.’ ‘after the lesson,’ snape snapped. under the pretext of holding up a measuring cup to see if he’d poured out enough armadillo bile, Harry_Potter sneaked a sidelong glance at the pair of them. karkaroff looked extremely worried, and snape looked angry. karkaroff hovered behind snape’s desk for the rest of the double period. he seemed intent on preventing snape slipping away at the end of class. keen to hear what karkaroff wanted to say, Harry_Potter deliberately knocked over his bottle of armadillo bile with two minutes to go to the bell, which gave him an excuse to duck down behind his cauldron and mop up while the rest of the class moved noisily towards the door. ‘what’s so urgent?’ he heard snape hiss at karkaroff. ‘this,’ said karkaroff, and Harry_Potter, peering around the edge of his cauldron, saw karkaroff pull up the left-hand sleeve of his robe, and show snape something on his inner forearm. ‘well?’ said karkaroff, still making every effort not to move his lips. ‘do you see? it’s never been this clear, never since –’ ‘put it away!’ snarled snape, his black eyes sweeping the classroom. ‘but you must have noticed –’ karkaroff began in an agitated voice. ‘we can talk later, karkaroff!’ spat snape. ‘potter! what are you doing?’ ‘clearing up my armadillo bile, professor,’ said Harry_Potter innocently, straightening up and showing snape the sodden rag he was holding. karkaroff turned on his heel and strode out of the Mundungus_Fletchereon. he looked both worried and angry. not wanting to remain alone with an exceptionally angry snape, Harry_Potter threw his books and ingredients back into his bag, and left at top speed to tellRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger what he had just witnessed. * they left the castle at noon the next day to find a weak silver sun shining down upon the grounds. the weather was milder than it had been all year, and by the time they arrived in hogsmeade, all three of them had taken off their cloaks and thrown them over their shoulders. the food Sirius_Black had told them to bring was in Harry_Potter’s bag; they had sneaked a dozen chicken legs, a loaf of bread and a flask of pumpkin juice from the lunch table. they went into gladrags wizardwear to buy a present for Dobby, where they had fun selecting all the most lurid socks they could find, including a pair patterned with flashing gold and silver stars, and another that screamed loudly when they became too smelly. then, at half past one, they made their way up the high street, past dervish and banges, and out towards the edge of the village. Harry_Potter had never been in this direction before. the winding lane was leading them out into the wild countryside around hogsmeade. the cottages were fewer here, and their gardens larger; they were walking towards the foot of the mountain in whose shadow hogsmeade lay. then they turned a corner, and saw a stile at the end of the lane. waiting for them, its front paws on the topmost bar, was a very large, shaggy black dog, which was carrying some newspapers in its mouth, and looked very familiar … ‘hello, Sirius_Black,’ said Harry_Potter, when they had reached him. the black dog sniffed Harry_Potter’s bag eagerly, wagged its tail once, then turned, and began to trot away from them across the scrubby patch of ground which rose to meet the rocky foot of the mountain. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger climbed over the stile and followed. Sirius_Black led them to the very foot of the mountain, where the ground was covered with boulders and rocks. it was easy for him, with his four paws, but Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger were soon out of breath. they followed Sirius_Black higher, up onto the mountain itself. for nearly half an hour they climbed a steep, winding and stony path, following Sirius_Black’ wagging tail, sweating in the sun, the shoulder straps of Harry_Potter’s bag cutting into his shoulders. then, at last, Sirius_Black slipped out of sight, and when they reached the place where he had vanished, they saw a narrow fissure in the rock. they squeezed into it, and found themselves in a cool, dimly lit cave. tethered at the end of it, one end of his rope around a large rock, was Buckbeak the hippogriff. half-grey horse, half-giant eagle, Buckbeak’s fierce orange eye flashed at the sight of them. all three of them bowed low to him, and after regarding them imperiously for a moment, Buckbeak bent his scaly front knees, and allowed Hermione_Granger to rush forward and stroke his feathery neck. Harry_Potter, however, was looking at the black dog, which had just turned into his godfather. Sirius_Black was wearing ragged grey robes; the same ones he had been wearing when he had left azkaban. his black hair was longer than it had been when he had appeared in the fire, and it was untidy and matted once more. he looked very thin. ‘chicken!’ he said hoarsely, after removing the old daily prophets from his mouth and throwing them down onto the cave floor. Harry_Potter pulled open his bag and handed over the bundle of chicken legs and bread. ‘thanks,’ said Sirius_Black, opening it, grabbing a drumstick, sitting down on the cave floor and tearing off a large chunk with his teeth. ‘i’ve been living off rats mostly. can’t steal too much food from hogsmeade; i’d draw attention to myself.’ he grinned up at Harry_Potter, but Harry_Potter returned the grin only reluctantly. ‘what’re you doing here, Sirius_Black?’ he said. ‘fulfilling my duty as godfather,’ said Sirius_Black, gnawing on the chicken bone in a very dog-like way. ‘don’t worry about me, i’m pretending to be a loveable stray.’ he was still grinning, but seeing the anxiety in Harry_Potter’s face, said more seriously, ‘i want to be on the spot. your last letter … well, let’s just say things are getting fishier. i’ve been stealing the paper every time someone throws one out, and by the looks of things, i’m not the only one who’s getting worried.’ he nodded at the yellowing daily prophets on the cave floor, andRonald_Weasleypicked them up and unfolded them. Harry_Potter, however, continued to stare at Sirius_Black. ‘what if they catch you? what if you’re seen?’ ‘you three and Albus_Dumbledore are the only ones round here who know i’m an animagus,’ said Sirius_Black, shrugging, and continuing to devour the chicken leg.Ronald_Weasleynudged Harry_Potter, and passed him the daily prophets. there were two; the first bore the headline mystery illness of Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch, the second, ministry witch still missing – minister for Magic_goblin now personally involved. Harry_Potter looked down the story about crouch. phrases jumped out at him: hasn’t been seen in public since november … house appears deserted … st mungo’s hospital for Magic_goblinal maladies decline comment … ministry refuses to confirm rumours of critical illness … ‘they’re making it sound like he’s dying,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘but he can’t be that ill if he managed to get up here …’ ‘my brother’s crouch’s personal assiStanley_Shunpiket,’Ronald_Weasleyinformed Sirius_Black. ‘he says crouch is suffering from overwork.’ ‘mind you, he did look ill, last time i saw him up close,’ said Harry_Potter slowly, still reading the story. ‘the night my name came out of the goblet …’ ‘getting his comeuppance for sacking Winky, isn’t he?’ said Hermione_Granger coldly. she was stroking Buckbeak, who was crunching up Sirius_Black’ chicken bones. ‘i bet he wishes he hadn’t done it now – bet he feels the difference now she’s not there to look after him.’ ‘Hermione_Granger’s obsessed with house-elves,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered to Sirius_Black, casting Hermione_Granger a dark look. Sirius_Black, however, looked interested. ‘crouch sacked his house-elf?’ ‘yeah, at the quidditch world cup,’ said Harry_Potter, and he launched into the story of the dark mark’s appearance, and Winky being found with Harry_Potter’s wand clutched in her hand, and mr crouch’s fury. when Harry_Potter had finished, Sirius_Black was on his feet again, and had started pacing up and down the cave. ‘let me get this straight,’ he said after a while, brandishing a fresh chicken leg. ‘you first saw theWinkyin the top box. she was saving crouch a seat, right?’ ‘right,’ said Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger together. ‘but crouch didn’t turn up for the match?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i think he said he’d been too busy.’ Sirius_Black paced all around the cave in silence. then he said, ‘Harry_Potter, did you check your pockets for your wand after you’d left the top box?’ ‘erm …’ Harry_Potter thought hard. ‘no,’ he said finally. ‘i didn’t need to use it before we got in the forest. and then i put my hand in my pocket, and all that was in there were my omnioculars.’ he stared at Sirius_Black. ‘are you saying whoever conjured the mark stole my wand in the top box?’ ‘it’s possible,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘Winky didn’t steal that wand!’ said Hermione_Granger shrilly. ‘theWinkywasn’t the only one in that box,’ said Sirius_Black, his brow furrowed as he continued to pace. ‘who else was sitting behind you?’ ‘loads of people,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘some bulgarian ministers … Cornelius_Fudge fudge … the malfoys …’ ‘the malfoys!’ saidRonald_Weasleysuddenly, so loudly that his voice echoed all around the cave, and Buckbeak tossed his head nervously. ‘i bet it was Lucius_Malfoy malfoy!’ ‘anyone else?’ said Sirius_Black. ‘no one,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yes, there was, there was Ludovic_Bagman bagman,’ Hermione_Granger reminded him. ‘oh, yeah …’ ‘i don’t know anything about bagman, except that he used to be beater for the wimbourne wasps,’ said Sirius_Black, still pacing. ‘what’s he like?’ ‘he’s ok,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he keeps offering to help me with the triwizard tournament.’ ‘does he, now?’ said Sirius_Black, frowning more deeply. ‘i wonder why he’d do that?’ ‘says he’s taken a liking to me,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘hmm,’ said Sirius_Black, looking thoughtful. ‘we saw him in the forest just before the dark mark appeared,’ Hermione_Granger told Sirius_Black. ‘remember?’ she said to Harry_Potter and ron. ‘yeah, but he didn’t stay in the forest, did he?’ said ron. ‘the moment we told him about the riot, he went off to the campsite.’ ‘how d’you know?’ Hermione_Granger shot back. ‘how d’you know where he disapparated to?’ ‘come off it,’ saidRonald_Weasleyincredulously, ‘are you saying you reckon Ludovic_Bagman bagman conjured the dark mark?’ ‘it’s more likely he did it than Winky,’ said Hermione_Granger stubbornly. ‘told you,’ said ron, looking meaningfully at Sirius_Black, ‘told you she’s obsessed with house–’ but Sirius_Black held up a hand to silence ron. ‘when the dark mark had been conjured, and theWinkyhad been discovered holding Harry_Potter’s wand, what did crouch do?’ ‘went to look in the bushes,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but there wasn’t anyone else there.’ ‘of course,’ Sirius_Black muttered, pacing up and down, ‘of course, he’d want to pin it on anyone but his ownWinky… and then he sacked her?’ ‘yes,’ said Hermione_Granger in a heated voice, ‘he sacked her, just because she hadn’t stayed in her tent and let herself get trampled –’ ‘Hermione_Granger, will you give it a rest with the elf!’ said ron. but Sirius_Black shook his head and said, ‘she’s got the measure of crouch better than you have, ron. if you want to know what a man’s like, take a good look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.’ he ran a hand over his unshaven face, evidently thinking hard. ‘all these absences of Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch’s … he goes to the trouble of making sure his house-elf saves him a seat at the quidditch world cup, but doesn’t bother to turn up and watch. he works very hard to reinstate the triwizard tournament, and then stops coming to that, too … it’s not like crouch. if he’s ever taken a day off work because of illness before this, i’ll eat Buckbeak.’ ‘d’you know crouch, then?’ said Harry_Potter. Sirius_Black’ face darkened. he suddenly looked as menacing as the night when Harry_Potter had first met him, the night when Harry_Potter had still believed Sirius_Black to be a murderer. ‘oh, i know crouch all right,’ he said quietly. ‘he was the one who gave the order for me to be sent to azkaban – without a trial.’ ‘what?’ saidRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger together. ‘you’re kidding!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no, i’m not,’ said Sirius_Black, taking another great bite of chicken. ‘crouch used to be head of the department of Magic_goblinal law enforcement, didn’t you know?’ Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger shook their heads. ‘he was tipped as the next minister for Magic_goblin,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘he’s a great wizard, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch, powerfully Magic_goblinal – and power-hungry. oh, never a voldemort supporter,’ he said, reading the look on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘no, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch was always very outspoken against the dark side. but then a lot of people who were against the dark side … well, you wouldn’t underStanley_Shunpiked … you’re too young …’ ‘that’s what my dad said at the world cup,’ said ron, with a trace of irRita_Skeetertion in his voice. ‘try us, why don’t you?’ a grin flashed across Sirius_Black’ thin face. ‘all right, i’ll try you…’ he walked once up the cave, back again, and then said, ‘imagine that voldemort’s powerful now. you don’t know who his supporters are, you don’t know who’s working for him and who isn’t; you know he can control people so that they do terrible things without being able to stop themselves. you’re scared for yourself, and your family, and your friends. every week, news comes of more deaths, more disappearances, more torturing … the ministry of Magic_goblin’s in disarray, they don’t know what to do, they’re trying to keep everything hidden from the muggles, but meanwhile, muggles are dying too. terror everywhere … panic … confusion … that’s how it used to be. ‘well, times like that bring out the best in some people, and the worst in others. crouch’s principles might’ve been good in the beginning – i wouldn’t know. he rose quickly through the ministry, and he started ordering very harsh measures against voldemort’s supporters. the aurors were given new powers – powers to kill rather than capture, for inStanley_Shunpikece. and i wasn’t the only one who was handed straight to the dementors without trial. crouch fought violence with violence, and authorised the use of the unforgivable curses against suspects. i would say he became as ruthless and cruel as many on the dark side. he had his supporters, mind you – plenty of people thought he was going about things the right way, and there were a lot of witches and wizards clamouring for him to take over as minister for Magic_goblin. when voldemort disappeared, it looked like only a matter of time until crouch got the top job. but then something rather unfortunate happened …’ Sirius_Black smiled grimly. ‘crouch’s own son was caught with a group of death eaters who’d managed to talk their way out of azkaban. apparently they were trying to find voldemort and return him to power.’ ‘crouch’s son was caught?’ gasped Hermione_Granger. ‘yep,’ said Sirius_Black, throwing his chicken bone to Buckbeak, and flinging himself back down on the ground beside the loaf of bread, and tearing it in half. ‘nasty little shock for old Bartemius_Crouch_Senior, i’d imagine. should have spent a bit more time at home with his family, shouldn’t he? ought to have left the office early once in a while … got to know his own son.’ he began to wolf down large pieces of bread. ‘was his son a death eater?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no idea,’ said Sirius_Black, still stuffing down bread. ‘i was in azkaban myself when he was brought in. this is mostly stuff i’ve found out since i got out. the boy was definitely caught in the company of people i’d bet my life were death eaters – but he might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time, just like the house-elf.’ ‘did crouch try and get his son off?’ Hermione_Granger whispered. Sirius_Black let out a laugh that was much more like a bark. ‘crouch let his son off? i thought you had the measure of him, Hermione_Granger? anything that threatened to tarnish his reputation had to go, he had dedicated his whole life to becoming minister for Magic_goblin. you saw him dismiss a devoted house-elf because she associated him with the dark mark again – doesn’t that tell you what he’s like? crouch’s fatherly affection stretched just far enough to give his son a trial and, by all accounts, it wasn’t much more than an excuse for crouch to show how much he hated the boy … then he sent him straight to azkaban.’ ‘he gave his own son to the dementors?’ asked Harry_Potter quietly. ‘that’s right,’ said Sirius_Black, and he didn’t look remotely amused now. ‘i saw the dementors bringing him in, watched them through the bars in my cell door. he can’t have been more than nineteen. they took him into a cell near mine. he was screaming for his mother by nightfall. he went quiet after a few days, though … they all went quiet in the end … except when they shrieked in their sleep …’ for a moment, the deadened look in Sirius_Black’ eyes became more pronounced than ever, as though shutters had closed behind them. ‘so he’s still in azkaban?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘no,’ said Sirius_Black dully. ‘no, he’s not in there any more. he died about a year after they brought him in.’ ‘he died?’ ‘he wasn’t the only one,’ said Sirius_Black bitterly. ‘most go mad in there, and plenty stop eating in the end. they lose the will to live. you could always tell when a death was coming, because the dementors could sense it, they got excited. that boy looked pretty sickly when he arrived. crouch being an important ministry member, he and his wife were allowed a deathbed visit. that was the last time i saw Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch, half carrying his wife past my cell. she died herself, apparently, shortly afterwards. grief. wasted away just like the boy. crouch never came for his son’s body. the dementors buried him outside the fortress, i watched them do it.’ Sirius_Black threw aside the bread he had just lifted to his mouth, and instead picked up the flask of pumpkin juice and drained it. ‘so old crouch lost it all, just when he thought he had it made,’ he continued, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. ‘one moment, a hero, poised to become minister for Magic_goblin … next, his son dead, his wife dead, the family name dishonoured, and, so i’ve heard since i escaped, a big drop in popularity. once the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more sympathetic towards him, and started asking how a nice young lad from a good family had gone so badly astray. the conclusion was that his father never cared much for him. so Cornelius_Fudge fudge got the top job, and crouch was shunted sideways into the department of international Magic_goblinal co- operation.’ there was a long silence. Harry_Potter was thinking of the way crouch’s eyes had bulged as he’d looked down at his disobedient house-elf back in the wood at the quidditch world cup. this, then, must have been why crouch had overreacted to Winky being found beneath the dark mark. it had brought back memories of his son, and the old scandal, and his fall from grace at the ministry. ‘moody says crouch is obsessed with catching dark wizards,’ Harry_Potter told Sirius_Black. ‘yeah, i’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with him,’ said Sirius_Black, nodding. ‘if you ask me, he still thinks he can bring back the old popularity by catching one more death eater.’ ‘and he sneaked up here to search snape’s office!’ saidRonald_Weasleytriumphantly, looking at Hermione_Granger. ‘yes, and that doesn’t make sense at all,’ said Sirius_Black. ‘yeah, it does!’ saidRonald_Weasleyexcitedly. but Sirius_Black shook his head. ‘listen, if crouch wants to investigate snape, why hasn’t he been coming to judge the tournament? it would be an ideal excuse to make regular visits to hogwarts and keep an eye on him.’ ‘so you think snape could be up to something, then?’ asked Harry_Potter, but Hermione_Granger broke in. ‘look, i don’t care what you say, Albus_Dumbledore trusts snape –’ ‘oh, come off it, Hermione_Granger,’ saidRonald_Weasleyimpatiently, ‘i know Albus_Dumbledore’s brilliant and everything, but that doesn’t mean a really Clever_goblin dark wizard couldn’t fool him –’ ‘why did snape save Harry_Potter’s life in the first year, then? why didn’t he just let him die?’ ‘i dunno – maybe he thought Albus_Dumbledore would kick him out –’ ‘what d’you think, Sirius_Black?’ Harry_Potter said loudly, andRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stopped bickering to listen. ‘i think they’ve both got a point,’ said Sirius_Black, looking thoughtfully atRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘ever since i found out snape was teaching here, i’ve wondered why Albus_Dumbledore hired him. snape’s always been fascinated by the dark arts, he was famous for it at school. slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid, he was,’ Sirius_Black added, and Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleygrinned at each other. ‘snape knew more curses when he arrived at school than half the kids in seventh year and he was part of a gang of slytherins who nearly all turned out to be death eaters.’ Sirius_Black held up his fingers, and began ticking off names. ‘Rose_Granger-Weasleyr and wilkes – they were both killed by aurors the year before voldemort fell. the Lestranges – they’re a married couple – they’re in azkaban. avery – from what i’ve heard he wormed his way out of trouble by saying he’d been acting under the imperius curse – he’s still at large. but as far as i know, snape was never even accused of being a death eater – not that that means much. plenty of them were never caught. and snape’s certainly Clever_goblin and cunning enough to keep himself out of trouble.’ ‘snape knows karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to keep that quiet,’ said ron. ‘yeah, you should’ve seen snape’s face when karkaroff turned up in potions yesterday!’ said Harry_Potter quickly. ‘karkaroff wanted to talk to snape, he says snape’s been avoiding him. karkaroff looked really worried. he showed snape something on his arm, but i couldn’t see what it was.’ ‘he showed snape something on his arm?’ said Sirius_Black, looking Frank_Brycely bewildered. he ran his fingers distractedly through his filthy hair, then shrugged again. ‘well, i’ve no idea what that’s about … but if karkaroff’s genuinely worried, and he’s going to snape for answers …’ Sirius_Black stared at the cave wall, then made a grimace of frustration. ‘there’s still the fact that Albus_Dumbledore trusts snape, and i know Albus_Dumbledore trusts where a lot of other people wouldn’t, but i just can’t see him letting snape teach at hogwarts if he’d ever worked for voldemort.’ ‘why are moody and crouch so keen to get into snape’s office, then?’ saidRonald_Weasleystubbornly. ‘well,’ said Sirius_Black slowly, ‘i wouldn’t put it past Alastor_Moody to have searched every single teacher’s office when he got to hogwarts. he takes his defence against the dark arts seriously, moody. i’m not sure he trusts anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, it’s not surprising. i’ll say this for moody, though, he never killed if he could help it. always brought people in alive where possible. he was tough, but he never descended to the level of the death eaters. crouch, though … he’s a different matter … is he really ill? if he is, why did he make the effort to drag himself up to snape’s office? and if he’s not … what’s he up to? what was he doing at the world cup that was so important he didn’t turn up in the top box? what’s he been doing while he should have been judging the tournament?’ Sirius_Black lapsed into silence, still staring at the cave wall. Buckbeak was ferreting around on the rocky floor, searching for bones he might have overlooked. finally, Sirius_Black looked up at ron. ‘you say your brother’s crouch’s personal assiStanley_Shunpiket? any chance you could ask him if he’s seen crouch lately?’ ‘i can try,’ saidRonald_Weasleydoubtfully. ‘better not make it sound like i reckon crouch is up to anything dodgy, though. Percy_Weasley loves crouch.’ ‘and you might try and find out whether they’ve got any leads on Bertha_Jorkins jorkins while you’re at it,’ said Sirius_Black, gesturing at the second copy of the daily prophet. ‘bagman told me they hadn’t,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yes, he’s quoted in the article in there,’ said Sirius_Black, nodding at the paper. ‘blustering on about how bad Bertha_Jorkins’s memory is. well, maybe she’s changed since i knew her, but the Bertha_Jorkins i knew wasn’t forgetful at all – quite the reverse. she was a bit dim, but she had an excellent memory for gossip. it used to get her into a lot of trouble, she never knew when to keep her mouth shut. i can see her being a bit of a liability at the ministry of Magic_goblin … maybe that’s why bagman didn’t bother to look for her for so long …’ Sirius_Black heaved an enormous sigh and rubbed his shadowed eyes. ‘what’s the time?’ Harry_Potter checked his watch, then remembered it hadn’t been working since it had spent an hour in the lake. ‘it’s half past three,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘you’d better get back to school,’ Sirius_Black said, getting to his feet. ‘now, listen …’ he looked particularly hard at Harry_Potter – ‘i don’t want you lot sneaking out of school to see me, all right? just send notes to me here. i still want to hear about anything odd. but you’re not to go leaving hogwarts without permission, it would be an ideal opportunity for someone to attack you.’ ‘no one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon and a couple of grindylows,’ Harry_Potter said. but Sirius_Black scowled at him. ‘i don’t care … i’ll breathe freely again when this tournament’s over, and that’s not until june. and don’t forget, if you’re talking about me among yourselves, call me Sirius_Black, ok?’ he handed Harry_Potter the empty napkin and flask, and went to pat Buckbeak goodbye. ‘i’ll walk to the edge of the village with you,’ said Sirius_Black, ‘see if i can scrounge another paper.’ he transformed into the great black dog before they left the cave, and they walked back down the mountainside with him, across the boulder-strewn ground, and back to the stile. here he allowed each of them to pat him on the head, before turning and setting off at a run around the outskirts of the village. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger made their way back into hogsmeade, and up towards hogwarts. ‘wonder if Percy_Weasley knows all that stuff about crouch?’Ronald_Weasleysaid, as they walked up the drive to the castle. ‘but maybe he doesn’t care … it’d probably just make him admire crouch even more. yeah, Percy_Weasley loves rules. he’d just say crouch was refusing to break them for his own son.’ ‘Percy_Weasley would never throw any of his family to the dementors,’ said Hermione_Granger severely. ‘i don’t know,’ said ron. ‘if he thought we were Stanley_Shunpikeding in the way of his career … Percy_Weasley’s really ambitious, you know …’ they walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall, where the delicious smells of dinner wafted towards them from the great hall. ‘poor old Sirius_Black,’ said ron, breathing deeply. ‘he must really like you, Harry_Potter … imagine having to live off rats.’ 