— chapter twenty-one — the house-elf liberation front Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger went up to the owlery that evening to find Pigwidgeon, so that Harry_Potter could send Sirius_Black a letter, telling him that he had managed to get past his dragon unscathed. on the way, Harry_Potter filled Ronald_Weasley in on everything Sirius_Black had told him about karkaroff. though shocked at first to hear that karkaroff had been a death eater, by the time they entered the owlery Ronald_Weasley was saying that they ought to have suspected it all along. ‘fits, doesn’t it?’ he said. ‘remember what malfoy said on the train, about his dad being friends with karkaroff? now we know where they knew each other. they were probably running around in masks together at the world cup … i’ll tell you one thing, though, Harry_Potter, if it was karkaroff who put your name in the goblet, he’s going to be feeling really stupid now, isn’t he? didn’t work, did it? you only got a scratch! come here – i’ll do it –’ Pigwidgeon was so over-excited at the idea of a delivery, he was flying round and round Harry_Potter’s head, hooting incessantly. Ronald_Weasley snatched Pigwidgeon out of the air and held him still while Harry_Potter attached the letter to his leg. ‘there’s no way any of the other tasks are going to be that dangerous, how could they be?’ Ronald_Weasley went on, as he carried Pigwidgeon to the window. ‘you know what? i reckon you could win this tournament, Harry_Potter, i’m serious.’ Harry_Potter knew that Ronald_Weasley was only saying this to make up for his behaviour of the last few weeks, but he appreciated it all the same. Hermione_Granger, however, leant against the owlery wall, folded her arms and frowned at Ronald_Weasley ‘Harry_Potter’s got a long way to go before he finishes this tournament,’ she said seriously. ‘if that was the first task, i hate to think what’s coming next.’ ‘right little ray of sunshine, aren’t you?’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘you and professor Sybill_Trelawney should get together some time.’ he threw Pigwidgeon out of the window. Pigwidgeon plummeted twelve feet before managing to pull himself back up again; the letter attached to his leg was much longer and heavier than usual – Harry_Potter hadn’t been able to resist giving Sirius_Black a blow-by-blow account of exactly how he had swerved, circled and dodged the horntail.    they watched Pigwidgeon disappear into the darkness, and then Ronald_Weasley said, ‘well, we’d better get downstairs for your surprise party, Harry_Potter – Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley should have Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoned enough food from the kitchens by now.’ sure enough, when they entered the gryffindor common room it exploded with cheers and yells again. there were mountains of cakes and flagons of pumpkin juice and butterbeer on every surface; Lee_Jordan had let off some dr filibuster’s fabulous no-heat, wet-start fireworks, so that the air was thick with stars and sparks; and Dean_Thomas, who was very good at drawing, had put up some impressive new banners, most of which depicted Harry_Potter zooming around the horntail’s head on his firebolt, though a couple showed Cedric_Diggory with his head on fire. Harry_Potter helped himself to food; he had almost forgotten what it was like to feel properly hungry, and sat down with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. he couldn’t believe how happy he felt; he had Ronald_Weasley back on his side, he’d got through the first task, and he wouldn’t have to face the second one for three months. ‘blimey, this is heavy,’ said Lee_Jordan, picking up the golden egg, which Harry_Potter had left on a table, and weighing it in his hands. ‘open it, Harry_Potter, go on! let’s just see what’s inside it!’ ‘he’s supposed to work out the clue on his own,’ Hermione_Granger said swiftly. ‘it’s in the tournament rules …’ ‘i was supposed to work out how to get past the dragon on my own, too,’ Harry_Potter muttered, so only Hermione_Granger could hear him, and she grinned rather guiltily. ‘yeah, go on, Harry_Potter, open it!’ several people echoed. Lee_Jordan passed Harry_Potter the egg, and Harry_Potter dug his fingernails into the groove that ran all the way around it, and prised it open. it was hollow and completely empty – but the moment Harry_Potter opened it, the most horrible noise, a loud and screechy Wailing_Widow, filled the room. the nearest thing to it Harry_Potter had ever heard was the ghost orchestra at Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington’s deathday party, who had all been playing the musical saw. ‘shut it!’ Fred_Weasley bellowed, his hands over his ears. ‘what was that?’ said Seamus_Finnigan, staring at the egg as Harry_Potter slammed it shut again. ‘sounded like a banshee … maybe you’ve got to get past one of those next, Harry_Potter!’ ‘it was someone being tortured!’ said Neville_Longbottom, who had gone very white, and spilled sausage rolls over the floor. ‘you’re going to have to fight the cruciatus curse!’ ‘don’t be a prat, Neville_Longbottom, that’s illegal,’ said George_Weasley. ‘they wouldn’t use the cruciatus curse on the champions. i thought it sounded a bit like Percy_Weasley singing … maybe you’ve got to attack him while he’s in the shower, Harry_Potter.’ ‘want a jam tart, Hermione_Granger?’ said Fred_Weasley. Hermione_Granger looked doubtfully at the plate he was offering her. Fred_Weasley grinned. ‘it’s all right,’ he said. ‘i haven’t done anything to them. it’s the custard creams you’ve got to watch –’ Neville_Longbottom, who had just bitten into a custard cream, choked and spat it out. Fred_Weasley laughed. ‘just my little joke, Neville_Longbottom …’ Hermione_Granger took a jam tart. then she said, ‘did you get all this from the kitchens, Fred_Weasley?’ ‘yep,’ said Fred_Weasley, grinning at her. he put on a high-pitched squeak and imitated a house-elf. ‘“anything we can get you, sir, anything at all!” they’re dead helpful … get me a roast ox if i said i was peckish.’ ‘how do you get in there?’ Hermione_Granger said, in an innocently casual sort of voice. ‘easy,’ said Fred_Weasley, ‘concealed door behind a painting of a bowl of fruit. just tickle the pear, and it giggles and –’ he stopped, and looked suspiciously at her. ‘why?’ ‘nothing,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘going to try and lead the house-elves out on strike now, are you?’ said George_Weasley. ‘going to give up all the leaflet stuff and try and stir them up into rebellion?’ several people chortled. Hermione_Granger didn’t answer. ‘don’t you go upsetting them and telling them they’ve got to take clothes and salaries!’ said Fred_Weasley warningly. ‘you’ll put them off their Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning!’ just then, Neville_Longbottom caused a slight diversion by turning into a large canary. ‘oh – sorry, Neville_Longbottom!’ Fred_Weasley shouted, over all the laughter. ‘i forgot – it was the custard creams we hexed –’ within a minute, however, Neville_Longbottom had moulted, and once his feathers had fallen off, he reappeared looking entirely normal. he even joined in laughing. ‘canary creams!’ Fred_Weasley shouted to the excitable crowd. ‘George_Weasley and i invented them – seven sickles each, bargain!’ it was nearly one in the morning when Harry_Potter finally went up to the dormitory with Ronald_Weasley Neville_Longbottom, Seamus_Finnigan and Dean_Thomas. before he pulled the curtains of his four-poster shut, Harry_Potter set his tiny model of the hungarian horntail on the table next to his bed, where it yawned, curled up and closed its eyes. really, Harry_Potter thought, as he pulled the hangings on his four-poster closed, Rubeus_Hagrid had a point … they were all right, really, dragons … * the start of december brought wind and sleet to hogwarts. draughty though the castle always was in winter, Harry_Potter was glad of its fires and thick walls every time he passed the durmstrang ship on the lake, which was pitching in the high winds, its black sails billowing against the dark skies. he thought the beauxbatons caravan was likely to be pretty chilly, too. Rubeus_Hagrid, he noticed, was keeping madame maxime’s horses well provided with their preferred drink of single-malt whisky; the fumes wafting from the trough in the corner of their paddock were enough to make the entire care of magical creatures class light headed. this was unhelpful, as they were still tending the horrible skrewts, and needed their wits about them. ‘i’m not sure whether they hibernate or not,’ Rubeus_Hagrid told the shivering class in the windy pumpkin patch next lesson. ‘thought we’d jus’ try an’ see if they fancied a kip … we’ll jus’ settle ’em down in these boxes …’ there were now only ten skrewts left; apparently their desire to kill each other had not been exercised out of them. each of them was now approaching six feet in length. their thick grey armour, their powerful, scuttling legs, their fire-blasting ends, their stings and their suckers, combined to make the skrewts the most repulsive things Harry_Potter had ever seen. the class looked dispiritedly at the enormous boxes Rubeus_Hagrid had brought out, all lined with pillows and Fluffy blankets. ‘we’ll jus’ lead ’em in here,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said, ‘an’ put the lids on, and we’ll see what happens.’ but the skrewts, it transpired, did not hibernate, and did not appreciate being forced into pillow-lined boxes and nailed in. Rubeus_Hagrid was soon yelling ‘don’ panic, now, don’ panic!’ while the skrewts rampaged around the pumpkin patch, now strewn with the smouldering wreckage of the boxes. most of the class – malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle in the lead – had fled into Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin through the back door and barricaded themselves in; Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, however, were among those who remained outside trying to help Rubeus_Hagrid. together they managed to restrain and tie up nine of the skrewts, though at the cost of numerous burns and cuts; finally, only one skrewt was left. ‘don’ frighten him, now!’ Rubeus_Hagrid shouted, as Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter used their wands to shoot jets of fiery sparks at the skrewt, which was advancing menacingly on them, its sting arched, quivering, over its back. ‘jus’ try an’ slip the rope round his sting, so he won’ hurt any o’ the others!’ ‘yeah, we wouldn’t want that!’ Ronald_Weasley shouted angrily, as he and Harry_Potter backed into the wall of Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin, still holding the skrewt off with their sparks. ‘well, well, well … this does look like fun.’ Rita_Skeeter was leaning on Rubeus_Hagrid’s garden fence, looking in at the mayhem. she was wearing a thick magenta cloak with a furry purple collar today, and her crocodile-skin handbag was over her arm. Rubeus_Hagrid launched himself forward on top of the skrewt that was cornering Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley and flattened it; a blast of fire shot out of its end, withering the pumpkin plants nearby. ‘who’re you?’ Rubeus_Hagrid asked Rita_Skeeter, as he slipped a loop of rope around the skrewt’s sting and tightened it. ‘Rita_Skeeter, daily prophet reporter,’ Rita_Skeeter replied, beaming at him. her gold teeth glinted. ‘thought Albus_Dumbledore said you weren’ allowed inside the school any more?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, frowning slightly as he got off the slightly squashed skrewt and started tugging it over to its fellows. Rita_Skeeter acted as though she hadn’t heard what Rubeus_Hagrid had said. ‘what are these fascinating creatures called?’ she asked, beaming still more widely. ‘Blast-Ended_Skrewts,’ grunted Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘really?’ said Rita_Skeeter, apparently full of lively interest. ‘i’ve never heard of them before … where do they come from?’ Harry_Potter noticed a dull red flush rising up out of Rubeus_Hagrid’s wild black beard, and his heart sank. where had Rubeus_Hagrid got the skrewts from? Hermione_Granger, who seemed to be thinking along the same lines, said quickly, ‘they’re very interesting, aren’t they? aren’t they, Harry_Potter?’ ‘what? oh, yeah … ouch … interesting,’ said Harry_Potter, as she stepped on his foot. ‘ah, you’re here, Harry_Potter!’ said Rita_Skeeter as she looked around. ‘so you like care of magical creatures, do you? one of your favourite lessons?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter stoutly. Rubeus_Hagrid beamed at him. ‘lovely,’ said Rita_Skeeter. ‘really lovely. been teaching long?’ she added to Rubeus_Hagrid. Harry_Potter noticed her eyes travel over Dean_Thomas (who had a nasty cut across one cheek), Lavender_Brown (whose robes were badly singed), Seamus_Finnigan (who was nursing several burnt fingers), and then to the cabin windows, where most of the class stood, their noses pressed against the glass, waiting to see if the coast was clear. ‘this is on’y me second year,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘lovely … i don’t suppose you’d like to give an interview, would you? share some of your experience of magical creatures? the prophet does a zoological column every wednesday, as i’m sure you know. we could feature these – er – Blast-Ended_Skrewt.’ ‘Blast-Ended_Skrewts,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said eagerly. ‘er – yeah, why not?’ Harry_Potter had a very bad feeling about this, but there was no way of communicating it to Rubeus_Hagrid without Rita_Skeeter seeing, so he had to stand and watch in silence as Rubeus_Hagrid and Rita_Skeeter made arrangements to meet in the three broomsticks for a good long interview later that week. then the bell rang up at the castle, signalling the end of the lesson. ‘well, goodbye, Harry_Potter!’ Rita_Skeeter called merrily to him, as he set off with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘until friday night, then, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ ‘she’ll twist everything he says,’ Harry_Potter said under his breath. ‘just as long as he didn’t import those skrewts illegally or anything,’ said Hermione_Granger desperately. they looked at each other – it was exactly the sort of thing Rubeus_Hagrid might do. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid’s been in loads of trouble before, and Albus_Dumbledore’s never sacked him,’ said Ronald_Weasley consolingly. ‘worst that can happen is Rubeus_Hagrid’ll have to get rid of the skrewts. sorry … did i say worst? i meant best.’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger laughed, and, feeling slightly more cheerful, went off to lunch. Harry_Potter thoroughly enjoyed double divination that afternoon; they were still doing star charts and predictions, but now that he and Ronald_Weasley were friends once more, the whole thing seemed very funny again. professor Sybill_Trelawney, who had been so pleased with the pair of them when they had been predicting their own horrific deaths, quickly became irRita_Skeeterted as they sniggered through her explanation of the various ways in which pluto could disrupt everyday life. ‘i would think,’ she said, in a mystical whisper that did not conceal her obvious annoyance, ‘that some of us’ – she stared very meaningfully at Harry_Potter – ‘might be a little less frivolous had they seen what i have seen, during my crystal-gazing last night. as i sat here, absorbed in my needlework, the urge to consult the orb overpowered me. i arose, i settled myself before it, and i gazed into its crystalline depths … and what do you think i saw gazing back at me?’ ‘an ugly old bat in outsize specs?’ Ronald_Weasley muttered under his breath. Harry_Potter fought hard to keep his face straight. ‘death, my dears.’ Parvati_Patil and Lavender_Brown both put their hands over their mouths, looking horrified. ‘yes,’ said professor Sybill_Trelawney, nodding impressively, ‘it comes, ever closer, it circles overhead like a vulture, ever lower … ever lower over the castle …’ she stared pointedly at Harry_Potter, who yawned very widely and obviously. ‘it’d be a bit more impressive if she hadn’t done it about eighty times before,’ Harry_Potter said, as they finally regained the fresh air of the staircase beneath professor Sybill_Trelawney’s room. ‘but if i’d dropped dead every time she’s told me i’m going to, i’d be a medical miracle.’ ‘you’d be a sort of extra-concentrated ghost,’ said Ronald_Weasley chortling, as they passed the Bloody_Baron going in the opposite direction, his wide eyes staring sinisterly. ‘at least we didn’t get homework. i Hope_Howell Hermione_Granger got loads off professor Septima_Vector, i love not working when she is …’ but Hermione_Granger wasn’t at dinner, and nor was she in the library when they went to look for her afterwards. the only person in there was Viktor_Krum. Ronald_Weasley hovered behind the bookshelves for a while, watching krum, debating in whispers with Harry_Potter whether he should ask for an autograph – but then Ronald_Weasley realised that six or seven girls were lurking in the next row of books, debating exactly the same thing, and he lost his enthusiasm for the idea. ‘wonder where she’s got to?’ Ronald_Weasley said, as he and Harry_Potter went back to gryffindor tower. ‘dunno … balderdash.’ but the Fat_Lady had barely begun to swing forwards, when the sound of racing feet behind them announced Hermione_Granger’s arrival. ‘Harry_Potter!’ she panted, skidding to a halt beside him (the Fat_Lady stared down at her, eyebrows raised). ‘Harry_Potter, you’ve got to come – you’ve got to come, the most amazing thing’s happened – please –’ she seized Harry_Potter’s arm and started to try and drag him back along the corridor. ‘what’s the matter?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘i’ll show you when we get there – oh, come on, quick –’ Harry_Potter looked around at ron; he looked back at Harry_Potter, intrigued. ‘ok,’ Harry_Potter said, starting off back down the corridor with Hermione_Granger, Ronald_Weasley hurrying to keep up. ‘oh, don’t mind me!’ the Fat_Lady called irRita_Skeeterbly after them. ‘don’t apologise for bothering me! i’ll just hang here, wide open, until you get back, shall i?’ ‘yeah, thanks,’ Ronald_Weasley shouted over his shoulder. ‘Hermione_Granger, where are we going?’ Harry_Potter asked, after she had led them down through six floors, and started down the marble staircase into the entrance hall. ‘you’ll see, you’ll see in a minute!’ said Hermione_Granger excitedly. she turned left at the bottom of the staircase, and hurried towards the door through which Cedric_Diggory had gone the night after the goblet of fire had regurgitated his and Harry_Potter’s names. Harry_Potter had never been through here before. he and Ronald_Weasley followed Hermione_Granger down a flight of stone steps, but instead of ending up in a Gloomy_nuns underground passage like the one which led to snape’s Mundungus_Fletchereon, they found themselves in a broad, stone corridor, brightly lit with torches, and decorated with cheerful paintings that were mainly of food. ‘oh, hang on …’ said Harry_Potter slowly, halfway down the corridor. ‘wait a minute, Hermione_Granger …’ ‘what?’ she turned around to look at him, anticipation all over her face. ‘i know what this is about,’ said Harry_Potter. he nudged Ronald_Weasley and pointed to the painting just behind Hermione_Granger. it showed a gigantic silver fruit-bowl. ‘Hermione_Granger!’ said Ronald_Weasley cottoning on. ‘you’re trying to rope us into that spew stuff again!’ ‘no, no, i’m not!’ she said hastily. ‘and it’s not spew, Ronald_Weasley –’ ‘changed the name, have you?’ said Ronald_Weasley frowning at her. ‘what are we now, then, the house-elf liberation front? i’m not barging into that kitchen and trying to make them stop work, i’m not doing it –’ ‘i’m not asking you to!’ Hermione_Granger said impatiently. ‘i came down here just now, to talk to them all, and i found – oh, come on, Harry_Potter, i want to show you!’ she seized his arm again, pulled him in front of the picture of the giant fruit-bowl, stretched out her forefinger and tickled the huge green pear. it began to squirm, chuckling, and suddenly turned into a large green door handle. Hermione_Granger seized it, pulled the door open, and pushed Harry_Potter hard in the back, forcing him inside. he had one brief glimpse of an enormous, high-ceilinged room, large as the great hall above it, with mounds of glittering brass pots and pans heaped around the stone walls, and a great brick fireplace at the other end, when something small hurtled towards him from the middle of the room, squealing, ‘Harry_Potter, sir! Harry_Potter!’ next second all the wind had been knocked out of him as the squealing Winky hit him hard in the midriff, hugging him so tightly he thought his ribs would break. ‘d-Dobby?’ Harry_Potter gasped. ‘it is Dobby, sir, it is!’ squealed the voice from somewhere around his navel. ‘Dobby has been hoping and hoping to see Harry_Potter, sir, and Harry_Potter has come to see him, sir!’ Dobby let go and stepped back a few paces, beaming up at Harry_Potter, his enormous, green, tennis-ball-shaped eyes brimming with tears of happiness. he looked almost exactly as Harry_Potter remembered him; the pencil-shaped nose, the bat-like ears, the long fingers and feet – all except the clothes, which were very different. when Dobby had worked for the malfoys, he had always worn the same filthy old pillowcase. now, however, he was wearing the strangest assortment of garments Harry_Potter had ever seen; he had made an even worse job of dressing himself than the wizards at the world cup. he was wearing a tea-cosy for a hat, on which he had pinned a number of bright badges; a tie patterned with horseshoes over a bare chest, a pair of what looked like children’s football shorts, and odd socks. one of these, Harry_Potter saw, was the black one he had removed from his own foot and tricked mr malfoy into giving Dobby, thereby setting Dobby free. the other was covered in pink and orange stripes. ‘Dobby, what’re you doing here?’ Harry_Potter said in amazement. ‘Dobby has come to work at hogwarts, sir!’ Dobby squealed excitedly. ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore gave Dobby and Winky jobs, sir!’ ‘Winky?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘she’s here, too?’ ‘yes, sir, yes!’ said Dobby, and he seized Harry_Potter’s hand, and pulled him off into the kitchen between the four long wooden tables that stood there. each of these tables, Harry_Potter noticed as he passed them, was positioned exactly beneath the four house tables above, in the great hall. at the moment, they were clear of food, dinner having finished, but he supposed that an hour ago they had been laden with dishes that were then sent up through the ceiling to their counterparts above. at least a hundred little elves were standing around the kitchen, beaming, bowing and curtseying as Dobby led Harry_Potter past them. they were all wearing the same uniform; a tea-towel stamped with the hogwarts crest, and tied, as Winky’s had been, like a toga. Dobby stopped in front of the brick fireplace, and pointed. ‘Winky, sir!’ he said. Winky was sitting on a stool by the fire. unlike Dobby, she had obviously not foraged for clothes. she was wearing a neat little skirt and blouse with a matching blue hat, which had holes in it for her large ears. however, while every one of Dobby’s strange collection of garments was so clean and well cared for that it looked brand new, Winky was plainly not taking care of her clothes at all. there were soup stains all down her blouse and a burn in her skirt. ‘hello, Winky,’ said Harry_Potter. Winky’s lip quivered. then she burst into tears, which spilled out of her great brown eyes and splashed down her front, just as they had done at the quidditch world cup. ‘oh, dear,’ said Hermione_Granger. she and Ronald_Weasley had followed Harry_Potter and Dobby to the end of the kitchen. ‘Winky, don’t cry, please don’t …’ but Winky cried harder than ever. Dobby, on the other hand, beamed up at Harry_Potter. ‘would Harry_Potter like a cup of tea?’ he squeaked loudly, over Winky’s sobs. ‘er – yeah, ok,’ said Harry_Potter. instantly, about six house-elves came trotting up behind him, bearing a large silver tray laden with a teapot, cups for Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, a milk jug and a large plate of biscuits. ‘good service!’ Ronald_Weasley said, in an impressed voice. Hermione_Granger frowned at him, but the elves all looked delighted; they bowed very low and retreated. ‘how long have you been here, Dobby?’ Harry_Potter asked, as Dobby handed round the tea. ‘only a week, Harry_Potter, sir!’ said Dobby happily. ‘Dobby came to see professor Albus_Dumbledore, sir. you see, sir, it is very difficult for a house-elf who has been dismissed to get a new position, sir, very difficult indeed –’ at this, Winky howled even harder, her squashed tomato of a nose dribbling all down her front, though she made no effort to stem the flow. ‘Dobby has travelled the country for two whole years, sir, trying to find work!’ Dobby squeaked. ‘but Dobby hasn’t found work, sir, because Dobby wants paying now!’ the house-elves all around the kitchen, who had been listening and watching with interest, all looked away at these words, as though Dobby had said something rude and embarrassing. Hermione_Granger, however, said, ‘good for you, Dobby!’ ‘thank you, miss!’ said Dobby, grinning toothily at her. ‘but most wizards doesn’t want a house-elf who wants paying, miss. “that’s not the point of a house-elf,” they says, and they slammed the door in Dobby’s face! Dobby likes work, but he wants to wear clothes and he wants to be paid, Harry_Potter … Dobby likes being free!’ the hogwarts house-elves had now started edging away from Dobby, as though he was carrying something contagious. Winky, however, remained where she was, though there was a definite increase in the volume of her crying. ‘and then, Harry_Potter, Dobby goes to visit Winky, and finds out Winky has been freed, too, sir!’ said Dobby delightedly. at this, Winky flung herself forwards off her stool, and lay, face down, on the flagged stone floor, beating her tiny fists upon it and positively screaming with misery. Hermione_Granger hastily dropped down to her knees beside her, and tried to comfort her, but nothing she said made the slightest difference. Dobby continued with his story, shouting shrilly over Winky’s screeches. ‘and then Dobby had the idea, Harry_Potter, sir! “why doesn’t Dobby and Winky find work together?” Dobby says. “where is there enough work for two house-elves?” says Winky. and Dobby thinks, and it comes to him, sir! hogwarts! so Dobby and Winky came to see professor Albus_Dumbledore, sir, and professor Albus_Dumbledore took us on!’ Dobby beamed very brightly, and happy tears welled in his eyes again. ‘and professor Albus_Dumbledore says he will pay Dobby, sir, if Dobby wants paying! and so Dobby is a free elf, sir, and Dobby gets a galleon a week and one day off a month!’ ‘that’s not very much!’ Hermione_Granger shouted indignantly from the floor, over Winky’s continued screaming and fist-beating. ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore offered Dobby ten galleons a week, and weekends off,’ said Dobby, suddenly giving a little shiver, as though the prospect of so much leisure and riches was frightening, ‘but Dobby beat him down, miss … Dobby likes freedom, miss, but he isn’t wanting too much, miss, he likes work better.’ ‘and how much is professor Albus_Dumbledore paying you, Winky?’ Hermione_Granger asked kindly. if she had thought this would cheer Winky up, she was wildly mistaken. Winky did stop crying, but when she sat up she was glaring at Hermione_Granger through her massive brown eyes, her whole face sopping wet and suddenly furious. ‘Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting paid!’ she squeaked. ‘Winky is not sunk so low as that! Winky is properly ashamed of being freed!’ ‘ashamed?’ said Hermione_Granger blankly. ‘but – Winky, come on! it’s mr crouch who should be ashamed, not you! you didn’t do anything wrong, he was really horrible to you –’ but at these words, Winky clapped her hands over the holes in her hat, flattening her ears so that she couldn’t hear a word, and screeched, ‘you is not insulting my master, miss! you is not insulting mr crouch! mr crouch is a good wizard, miss! mr crouch is right to sack bad Winky!’ ‘Winky is having trouble adJustin_Finch-Fletchleyg, Harry_Potter,’ squeaked Dobby confidentially. ‘Winky forgets she is not bound to mr crouch any more; she is allowed to speak her mind now, but she won’t do it.’ ‘can’t house-elves speak their minds about their masters, then?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘oh, no, sir, no,’ said Dobby, looking suddenly serious.‘’tis part of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. we keeps their secrets and our silence, sir, we upholds the family’s honour, and we never speaks ill of them – though professor Albus_Dumbledore told Dobby he does not insist upon this. professor Albus_Dumbledore said we is free to – to –’ Dobby looked suddenly nervous, and beckoned Harry_Potter closer. Harry_Potter bent forwards. Dobby whispered, ‘he said we is free to call him a – a barmy old codger if we likes, sir!’ Dobby gave a frightened sort of giggle. ‘but Dobby is not wanting to, Harry_Potter,’ he said, talking normally again, and shaking his head so that his ears flapped. ‘Dobby likes professor Albus_Dumbledore very much, sir, and is proud to keep his secrets for him.’ ‘but you can say what you like about the malfoys now?’ Harry_Potter asked him, grinning. a slightly fearful look came into Dobby’s immense eyes. ‘Dobby – Dobby could,’ he said doubtfully. he squared his small shoulders. ‘Dobby could tell Harry_Potter that his old masters were – were – bad dark wizards!’ Dobby stood for a moment, quivering all over, horror-struck by his own daring – then he rushed over to the nearest table, and began banging his head on it, very hard, squealing, ‘bad Dobby! bad Dobby!’ Harry_Potter seized Dobby by the back of his tie and pulled him away from the table. ‘thank you, Harry_Potter, thank you,’ said Dobby breathlessly, rubbing his head. ‘you just need a bit of practice,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘practice!’ squealed Winky furiously. ‘you is ought to be ashamed of yourself, Dobby, talking that way about your masters!’ ‘they isn’t my masters any more, Winky!’ said Dobby defiantly. ‘Dobby doesn’t care what they think any more!’ ‘oh, you is a bad elf, Dobby!’ moaned Winky, tears leaking down her face once more. ‘my poor mr crouch, what is he doing without Winky? he is needing me, he is needing my help! i is looking after the crouches all my life, and my mother is doing it before me, and my grandmother is doing it before her … oh, what is they saying if they knew Winky was freed? oh, the shame, the shame!’ she buried her face in her skirt again and bawled. ‘Winky,’ said Hermione_Granger, firmly, ‘i’m quite sure mr crouch is getting along perfectly well without you. we’ve seen him, you know –’ ‘you is seeing my master?’ said Winky breathlessly, raising her tear-stained face out of her skirt once more, and goggling at Hermione_Granger. ‘you is seeing him here at hogwarts?’ ‘yes,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘he and mr bagman are judges in the triwizard tournament.’ ‘mr bagman comes, too?’ squeaked Winky, and to Harry_Potter’s great surprise (and Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s, too, by the looks on their faces), she looked angry again. ‘mr bagman is a bad wizard! a very bad wizard! my master isn’t liking him, oh no, not at all!’ ‘bagman – bad?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh yes,’ Winky said, nodding her head furiously. ‘my master is telling Winky some things! but Winky is not saying … Winky – Winky keeps her master’s secrets …’ she dissolved yet again in tears; they could hear her sobbing into her skirt, ‘poor master, poor master, no Winky to help him no more!’ they couldn’t get another sensible word out of Winky. they left her to her crying, and finished their tea, while Dobby chatted happily about his life as a free elf, and his plans for his wages. ‘Dobby is going to buy a jumper next, Harry_Potter!’ he said happily, pointing at his bare chest. ‘tell you what, Dobby,’ said Ronald_Weasley who seemed to have taken a great liking to the elf, ‘i’ll give you the one my mum knits me this christmas, i always get one from her. you don’t mind maroon, do you?’ Dobby was delighted. ‘we might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,’ Ronald_Weasley told him, ‘but it’ll go well with your tea-cosy.’ as they prepared to take their leave, many of the surrounding elves pressed in upon them, offering snacks to take back upstairs. Hermione_Granger refused, with a pained look at the way the elves kept bowing and curtseying, but Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley loaded their pockets with cream cakes and pies. ‘thanks a lot!’ Harry_Potter said to the elves, who had all clustered around the door to say goodnight. ‘see you, Dobby!’ ‘Harry_Potter … can Dobby come and see you sometimes, sir?’ Dobby asked tentatively. ‘’course you can,’ said Harry_Potter, and Dobby beamed. ‘you know what?’ said Ronald_Weasley once he, Hermione_Granger and Harry_Potter had left the kitchens behind, and were climbing the steps into the entrance hall again. ‘all these years i’ve been really impressed with Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtoning food from the kitchens – well, it’s not exactly difficult, is it? they can’t wait to give it away!’ ‘i think this is the best thing that could have happened to those elves, you know,’ said Hermione_Granger, leading the way back up the marble staircase. ‘Dobby coming to work here, i mean. the other elves will see how happy he is, being free, and slowly it’ll dawn on them that they want that, too!’ ‘let’s Hope_Howell they don’t look too closely at Winky,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh, she’ll cheer up,’ said Hermione_Granger, though she sounded a bit doubtful. ‘once the shock’s worn off, and she’s got used to hogwarts, she’ll see how much better off she is without that crouch man.’ ‘she seems to love him,’ said Ronald_Weasley thickly (he had just started on a cream cake). ‘doesn’t think much of bagman, though, does she?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘wonder what crouch says at home about him?’ ‘probably says he’s not a very good head of department,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘and let’s face it … he’s got a point, hasn’t he?’ ‘i’d still rather work for him than old crouch,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘at least bagman’s got a sense of humour.’ ‘don’t let Percy_Weasley hear you saying that,’ Hermione_Granger said, smiling slightly. ‘yeah, well, Percy_Weasley wouldn’t want to work for anyone with a sense of humour, would he?’ said Ronald_Weasley now starting on a chocolate éclair. ‘Percy_Weasley wouldn’t recognise a joke if it danced naked in front of him wearing Dobby’s tea-cosy.’ 