— chapter seventeen — the four champions Harry_Potter sat there, aware that every head in the great hall had turned to look at him. he was stunned. he felt numb. he was surely dreaming. he had not heard correctly. there was no applause. a buzzing, as though of angry bees, was starting to fill the hall; some students were standing up to get a better look at Harry_Potter as he sat, frozen, in his seat. up at the top table, professor Minerva_McGonagall had got to her feet and swept past Ludovic_Bagman bagman and professor karkaroff to whisper urgently to professor Albus_Dumbledore, who bent his ear towards her, frowning slightly. Harry_Potter turned to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger; beyond them, he saw the long gryffindor table all watching him, open mouthed. ‘i didn’t put my name in,’ Harry_Potter said blankly. ‘you know i didn’t.’ both of them stared just as blankly back. at the top table, professor Albus_Dumbledore had straightened up, nodding to professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘Harry_Potter!’ he called again. ‘Harry_Potter! up here, if you please!’ ‘go on,’ Hermione_Granger whispered, giving Harry_Potter a slight push. Harry_Potter got to his feet, trod on the hem of his robes and stumbled slightly. he set off up the gap between the gryffindor and hufflepuff tables. it felt like an immensely long walk; the top table didn’t seem to be getting any nearer at all, and he could feel hundreds and hundreds of eyes upon him, as though each was a searchlight. the buzzing grew louder and louder. after what seemed like an hour, he was right in front of Albus_Dumbledore, feeling the stares of all the teachers upon him. ‘well … through the door, Harry_Potter,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. he wasn’t smiling. Harry_Potter moved off along the teachers’ table. Rubeus_Hagrid was sat right at the end. he did not wink at Harry_Potter, or wave, or give any of his usual signs of greeting. he looked completely astonished, and stared at Harry_Potter as he passed, like everyone else. Harry_Potter went through the door out of the great hall, and found    himself in a smaller room, lined with paintings of witches and wizards. a handsome fire was roaring in the fireplace opposite him. the faces in the portraits turned to look at him as he entered. he saw a wizened witch flit out of the frame of her picture and into the one next to it, which contained a wizard with a walrus moustache. the wizened witch started whispering in his ear. Viktor_Krum, Cedric_Diggory and Fleur_Delacour were grouped around the fire. they looked strangely impressive, silhouetted against the flames. krum, hunched up and brooding, was leaning against the mantelpiece, slightly apart from the other two. Cedric_Diggory was standing with his hands behind his back, staring into the fire. Fleur_Delacour looked around when Harry_Potter walked in, and threw back her sheet of long, silvery hair. ‘what is it?’ she said. ‘do zey want us back in ze hall?’ she thought he had come to deliver a message. Harry_Potter didn’t know how to explain what had just happened. he just stood there, looking at the three champions. it struck him how very tall all of them were. there was a sound of scurrying feet behind him, and Ludovic_Bagman bagman entered the room. he took Harry_Potter by the arm, and led him forwards. ‘extraordinary!’ he muttered, squeezing Harry_Potter’s arm.  ‘absolutely extraordinary! gentlemen … lady,’ he added, approaching the fireside and addressing the other three. ‘may i introduce – incredible though it may seem – the fourth triwizard champion?’ Viktor_Krum straightened up. his surly face darkened as he surveyed Harry_Potter. Cedric_Diggory looked nonplussed. he looked from bagman to Harry_Potter and back again as though sure he must have misheard what bagman had said. Fleur_Delacour, however, tossed her hair, smiling, and said, ‘oh, vairy funny joke, meester bagman.’ ‘joke?’ bagman repeated, bewildered. ‘no, no, not at all! Harry_Potter’s name just came out of the goblet of fire!’ krum’s thick eyebrows contracted slightly. Cedric_Diggory was still looking politely bewildered. Fleur_Delacour frowned. ‘but evidently zair ’as been a mistake,’ she said contemptuously to bagman.‘’e cannot compete. ’e is too young.’ ‘well … it is amazing,’ said bagman, rubbing his smooth chin and smiling down at Harry_Potter. ‘but, as you know, the age restriction was only imposed this year as an extra safety measure. and as his name’s come out of the goblet … i mean, i don’t think there can be any ducking out at this stage … it’s down in the rules, you’re obliged … Harry_Potter will just have to do the best he –’ the door behind them opened again, and a large group of people came in: professor Albus_Dumbledore, followed closely by mr crouch, professor karkaroff, madame maxime, professor Minerva_McGonagall and professor snape. Harry_Potter heard the buzzing of the hundreds of students on the other side of the wall, before professor Minerva_McGonagall closed the door. ‘madame maxime!’ said Fleur_Delacour at once, striding over to her headmistress. ‘zey are saying zat zis little boy is to compete also!’ somewhere under Harry_Potter’s numb disbelief, he felt a ripple of anger. little boy? madame maxime had drawn herself up to her full, and considerable, height. the top of her handsome head brushed the candle-filled chandelier, and her gigantic black satin bosom swelled. ‘what is ze meaning of zis, dumbly-dorr?’ she said imperiously. ‘i’d rather like to know that myself, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said professor karkaroff. he was wearing a steely smile, and his blue eyes were like chips of ice. ‘two hogwarts champions? i don’t remember anyone telling me the host school is allowed two champions – or have i not read the rules carefully enough?’ he gave a short and nasty laugh. ‘c’est impossible,’ said madame maxime, whose enormous hand with its many superb opals was resting upon Fleur_Delacour’s shoulder.‘’ogwarts cannot ’ave two champions. it is most injust.’ ‘we were under the impression that your age line would keep out younger contestants, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said karkaroff, his steely smile still in place, though his eyes were colder than ever. ‘otherwise, we would, of course, have brought along a wider selection of candidates from our own schools.’ ‘it’s no one’s fault but potter’s, karkaroff,’ said snape softly. his black eyes were alight with mAlice_Longbottom. ‘don’t go blaming Albus_Dumbledore for potter’s determination to break rules. he has been crossing lines ever since he arrived here –’ ‘thank you, Severus_Snape,’ said Albus_Dumbledore firmly, and snape went quiet, though his eyes still glinted malevolently through his curtain of greasy black hair. professor Albus_Dumbledore was now looking down at Harry_Potter, who looked right back at him, trying to discern the expression of the eyes behind the half-moon spectacles. ‘did you put your name into the goblet of fire, Harry_Potter?’ Albus_Dumbledore asked calmly. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. he was very aware of everybody watching him closely. snape made a soft noise of impatient disbelief in the shadows. ‘did you ask an older student to put it into the goblet of fire for you?’ said professor Albus_Dumbledore, ignoring snape. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter vehemently. ‘ah, but of course ’e is lying!’ cried madame maxime. snape was now shaking his head, his lip curling. ‘he could not have crossed the age line,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall sharply. ‘i am sure we are all agreed on that –’ ‘dumbly-dorr must ’ave made a mistake wiz ze line,’ said madame maxime, shrugging. ‘it is possible, of course,’ said Albus_Dumbledore politely. ‘Albus_Dumbledore, you know perfectly well you did not make a mistake!’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall angrily. ‘really, what nonsense! Harry_Potter could not have crossed the line himself, and as professor Albus_Dumbledore believes that he did not persuade an older student to do it for him, i’m sure that should be good enough for everybody else!’ she shot a very angry look at professor snape. ‘mr crouch … mr bagman,’ said karkaroff, his voice unctuous once more, ‘you are our – er – objective judges. surely you will agree that this is most irregular?’ bagman wiped his round, boyish face with his handkerchief and looked at mr crouch, who was standing outside the circle of the firelight, his face half hidden in shadow. he looked slightly eerie, the half darkness making him look much older, giving him an almost skull-like appearance. when he spoke, however, it was in his usual curt voice. ‘we must follow the rules, and the rules state clearly that those people whose names come out of the goblet of fire are bound to compete in the tournament.’ ‘well, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior knows the rulebook back to front,’ said bagman, beaming and turning back to karkaroff and madame maxime, as though the matter was now closed. ‘i insist upon resubmitting the names of the rest of my students,’ said karkaroff. he had dropped his unctuous tone and his smile now. his face wore a very ugly look indeed. ‘you will set up the goblet of fire once more, and we will continue adding names until each school has two champions. it’s only fair, Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘but karkaroff, it doesn’t work like that,’ said bagman. ‘the goblet of fire’s just gone out – it won’t re-ignite until the start of the next tournament –’ ‘– in which durmstrang will most certainly not be competing!’ exploded karkaroff. ‘after all our meetings and negotiations and compromises, i little expected something of this nature to occur! i have half a mind to leave now!’ ‘empty threat, karkaroff,’ growled a voice from near the door. ‘you can’t leave your champion now. he’s got to compete. they’ve all got to compete. binding magical contract, like Albus_Dumbledore said. convenient, eh?’ moody had just entered the room. he limped towards the fire, and with every right step he took, there was a loud clunk. ‘convenient?’ said karkaroff. ‘i’m afraid i don’t understand you, moody.’ Harry_Potter could tell he was trying to sound disdainful, as though what moody was saying was barely worth his notice, but his hands gave him away; they had balled themselves into fists. ‘don’t you?’ said moody quietly. ‘it’s very simple, karkaroff. someone put potter’s name in that goblet knowing he’d have to compete if it came out.’ ‘evidently, someone ’oo wished to give ’ogwarts two bites at ze apple!’ said madame maxime. ‘i quite agree, madame maxime,’ said karkaroff, bowing to her. ‘i shall be lodging complaints with the ministry of magic and the international confederation of wizards –’ ‘if anyone’s got reason to complain, it’s potter,’ growled moody, ‘but … funny thing … i don’t hear him saying a word …’ ‘why should ’e complain?’ burst out Fleur_Delacour, stamping her foot.‘’e ’as ze chance to compete, ’asn’t ’e? we ’ave all been ’oping to be chosen for weeks and weeks! ze honour for our schools! a thousand galleons in prize money – zis is a chance many would die for!’ ‘maybe someone’s hoping potter is going to die for it,’ said moody, with the merest trace of a growl. an extremely tense silence followed these words. Ludovic_Bagman bagman, who was looking very anxious indeed, bounCedric_Diggory nervously up and down on his feet and said, ‘moody, old man … what a thing to say!’ ‘we all know professor moody considers the morning wasted if he hasn’t discovered six plots to murder him before lunchtime,’ said karkaroff loudly. ‘apparently he is now teaching his students to fear assassination, too. an odd quality in a defence against the dark arts teacher, Albus_Dumbledore, but no doubt you had your reasons.’ ‘imagining things, am i?’ growled moody. ‘seeing things, eh? it was a skilled witch or wizard who put the boy’s name in that goblet …’ ‘ah, what evidence is zere of zat?’ said madame maxime, throwing up her huge hands. ‘because they hoodwinked a very powerful magical object!’ said moody. ‘it would have needed an exceptionally strong confundus charm to bamboozle that goblet into forgetting that only three schools compete in the tournament … i’m guessing they submitted potter’s name under a fourth school, to make sure he was the only one in his category …’ ‘you seem to have given this a great deal of thought, moody,’ said karkaroff coldly, ‘and a very ingenious theory it is – though, of course, i heard you recently got it into your head that one of your birthday presents contained a cunningly disguised Basilisk egg, and smashed it to pieces before realising it was a carriage clock. so you’ll understand if we don’t take you entirely seriously …’ ‘there are those who’ll turn innocent occasions to their advantage,’ moody retorted in a menacing voice. ‘it’s my job to think the way dark wizards do, karkaroff – as you ought to remember …’ ‘Alastor_Moody!’ said Albus_Dumbledore warningly. Harry_Potter wondered for a moment whom he was speaking to, but then realised ‘Alastor_Moody’ could hardly be moody’s real first name. moody fell silent, though still surveying karkaroff with satisfaction – karkaroff’s face was burning. ‘how this situation arose, we do not know,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, speaking to everyone gathered in the room. ‘it seems to me, however, that we have no choice but to accept it. both Cedric_Diggory and Harry_Potter have been chosen to compete in the tournament. this, therefore, they will do …’ ‘ah, but dumbly-dorr –’ ‘my dear madame maxime, if you have an alternative, i would be delighted to hear it.’ Albus_Dumbledore waited, but madame maxime did not speak, she merely glared. she wasn’t the only one, either. snape looked furious; karkaroff livid. bagman, however, looked rather excited. ‘well, shall we crack on, then?’ he said, rubbing his hands together and smiling around the room. ‘got to give our champions their instructions, haven’t we? Bartemius_Crouch_Senior, want to do the honours?’ mr crouch seemed to come out of a deep reverie. ‘yes,’ he said, ‘instructions. yes … the first task …’ he moved forwards into the firelight. close to, Harry_Potter thought he looked ill. there were dark shadows beneath his eyes, and a thin, papery look about his wrinkled skin that had not been there at the quidditch world cup. ‘the first task is designed to test your daring,’ he told Harry_Potter, Cedric_Diggory, Fleur_Delacour and krum, ‘so we are not going to be telling you what it is. courage in the face of the unknown is an important quality in a wizard … very important … ‘the first task will take place on november the twenty-fourth, in front of the other students and the panel of judges. ‘the champions are not permitted to ask for or accept help of any kind from their teachers to complete the tasks in the tournament. the champions will face the first challenge armed only with their wands. they will receive information about the second task when the first is over. owing to the demanding and time-consuming nature of the tournament, the champions are exempted from end-of-year tests.’ mr crouch turned to look at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘i think that’s all, is it, Albus_Dumbledore?’ ‘i think so,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, who was looking at mr crouch with mild concern. ‘are you sure you wouldn’t like to stay at hogwarts tonight, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior?’ ‘no, Albus_Dumbledore, i must get back to the ministry,’ said mr crouch. ‘it is a very busy, very difficult time at the moment … i’ve left young weatherby in charge … very enthusiastic … a little over-enthusiastic, if truth be told …’ ‘you’ll come and have a drink before you go, at least?’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘come on, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior, i’m staying!’ said bagman brightly. ‘it’s all happening at hogwarts now, you know, much more exciting here than at the office!’ ‘i think not, Ludovic_Bagman,’ said crouch, with a touch of his old impatience. ‘professor karkaroff – madame maxime – a nightcap?’ said Albus_Dumbledore. but madame maxime had already put her arm around Fleur_Delacour’s shoulders, and was leading her swiftly out of the room. Harry_Potter could hear them both talking very fast in french as they went off into the great hall. karkaroff beckoned to krum, and they, too, exited, though in silence. ‘Harry_Potter, Cedric_Diggory, i suggest you go up to bed,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, smiling at both of them. ‘i am sure gryffindor and hufflepuff are waiting to celebrate with you, and it would be a shame to deprive them of this excellent excuse to make a great deal of mess and noise.’ Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory at Cedric_Diggory, who nodded, and they left together. the great hall was deserted now; the candles had burnt low, giving the jagged sMiles_Bletchley of the pumpkins an eerie, flickering quality. ‘so,’ said Cedric_Diggory, with a slight smile. ‘we’re playing against each other again!’ ‘i s’pose,’ said Harry_Potter. he really couldn’t think of anything to say. the inside of his head seemed to be in complete disarray, as though his brain had been ransacked. ‘so … tell me …’ said Cedric_Diggory, as they reached the entrance hall, which was now lit only by torches in the absence of the goblet of fire. ‘how did you get your name in?’ ‘i didn’t,’ said Harry_Potter, staring up at him. ‘i didn’t put it in. i was telling the truth.’ ‘ah … ok,’ said Cedric_Diggory. Harry_Potter could tell Cedric_Diggory didn’t believe him. ‘well … see you, then.’ instead of going up the marble staircase, Cedric_Diggory headed for a door to its right. Harry_Potter stood listening to him going down the stone steps beyond it, then, slowly, started to climb the marble ones. was anyone except Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger going to believe him, or would they all think he’d put himself in for the tournament? yet how could anyone think that, when he was facing competitors who’d had three years’ more magical education than he had – when he was now facing tasks which not only sounded very dangerous, but which were to be performed in front of hundreds of people? yes, he’d thought about it … he’d fantasised about it … but it had been a joke, really, an idle sort of dream … he’d never really, seriously considered entering … but someone else had considered it … someone else had wanted him in the tournament, and had made sure he was entered. why? to give him a treat? he didn’t think so, somehow … to see him make a fool of himself? well, they were likely to get their wish … but to get him killed? was moody just being his usual paranoid self? couldn’t someone have put Harry_Potter’s name in the goblet as a trick, a practical joke? did anyone really want him dead? Harry_Potter was able to answer that at once. yes, someone wanted him dead, someone had wanted him dead ever since he had been a year old … Tom_Riddle. but how could voldemort have ensured that Harry_Potter’s name got into the goblet of fire? voldemort was supposed to be far away, in some distant country, in hiding, alone … feeble and powerless … yet in that dream he had had, just before he had awoken with his scar hurting, voldemort had not been alone … he had been talking to Peter_Pettigrew … plotting Harry_Potter’s murder … Harry_Potter got a shock to find himself facing the Fat_Lady already. he had barely notiCedric_Diggory where his feet were carrying him. it was also a surprise to see that she was not alone in her frame. the wizened witch who had flitted into her neighbour’s painting when he had joined the champions downstairs was now sitting smugly beside the Fat_Lady. she must have dashed through every picture lining seven staircases to reach here before him. both she and the Fat_Lady were looking down at him with the keenest interest. ‘well, well, well,’ said the Fat_Lady, ‘violet’s just told me everything. who’s just been chosen as school champion, then?’ ‘balderdash,’ said Harry_Potter dully. ‘it most certainly isn’t!’ said the pale witch indignantly. ‘no, no, vi, it’s the password,’ said the Fat_Lady soothingly, and she swung forwards on her hinges to let Harry_Potter into the common room. the blast of noise that met Harry_Potter’s ears when the portrait opened almost knocked him backwards. next thing he knew, he was being wrenched inside the common room by about a dozen pairs of hands, and was facing the whole of gryffindor house, all of whom were screaming, applauding and whistling. ‘you should’ve told us you’d entered!’ bellowed Fred_Weasley; he looked half annoyed, half deeply impressed. ‘how did you do it without getting a beard? brilliant!’ roared George_Weasley. ‘i didn’t,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘i don’t know how –’ but Angelina_Johnson had now swooped down upon him. ‘oh, if it couldn’t be me, at least it’s a gryffindor –’ ‘you’ll be able to pay back diggory for that last quidditch match, Harry_Potter!’ shrieked Katie_Bell, another of the gryffindor chasers. ‘we’ve got food, Harry_Potter, come and have some –’ ‘i’m not hungry, i had enough at the feast –’ but nobody wanted to hear that he wasn’t hungry; nobody wanted to hear that he hadn’t put his name in the goblet; not one single person seemed to have notiCedric_Diggory that he wasn’t at all in the mood to celebrate … Lee_Jordan had unearthed a gryffindor banner from somewhere, and he insisted on draping it around Harry_Potter like a cloak. Harry_Potter couldn’t get away; whenever he tried to sidle over to the staircase up to the dormitories, the crowd around him closed ranks, forcing another butterbeer on him, stuffing crisps and peanuts into his hands … everyone wanted to know how he had done it, how he had tricked Albus_Dumbledore’s age line, and managed to get his name into the goblet … ‘i didn’t,’ he said, over and over again, ‘i don’t know how it happened.’ but for all the notice anyone took, he might just as well not have answered at all. ‘i’m tired!’ he bellowed finally, after nearly half an hour. ‘no, seriously, George_Weasley – i’m going to bed –’ he wanted more than anything to find Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, to find a bit of sanity, but neither of them seemed to be in the common room. insisting that he needed to sleep, and almost flattening the little creevey brothers as they attempted to waylay him at the foot of the stairs, Harry_Potter managed to shake everyone off, and climbed up to the dormitory as fast as he could. to his great relief, he found Ronald_Weasley was lying on his bed in the otherwise empty dormitory, still fully dressed. he looked up when Harry_Potter slammed the door behind him. ‘where’ve you been?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘oh, hello,’ said Ronald_Weasley he was grinning, but it looked a very odd, strained sort of grin. Harry_Potter suddenly became aware that he was still wearing the scarlet gryffindor banner that Lee_Jordan had tied around him. he hastened to take it off, but it was knotted very tightly. Ronald_Weasley lay on the bed without moving, watching Harry_Potter struggle to remove it. ‘so,’ he said, when Harry_Potter had finally removed the banner and thrown it into a corner. ‘congratulations.’ ‘what d’you mean, congratulations?’ said Harry_Potter, staring at Ronald_Weasley there was definitely something wrong with the way Ronald_Weasley was smiling; it was more like a grimace. ‘well … no one else got across the age line,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘not even Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. what did you use – the invisibility cloak?’ ‘the invisibility cloak wouldn’t have got me over that line,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘oh, right,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i thought you might’ve told me if it was the cloak … because it would’ve covered both of us, wouldn’t it? but you found another way, did you?’ ‘listen,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘i didn’t put my name in that goblet. someone else must’ve done it.’ Ronald_Weasley raised his eyebrows. ‘what would they do that for?’ ‘i dunno,’ said Harry_Potter. he felt it would sound very melodramatic to say ‘to kill me’. ron’s eyebrows rose so high that they were in danger of disappearing into his hair. ‘it’s ok, you know, you can tell me the truth,’ he said. ‘if you don’t want everyone else to know, fine, but i don’t know why you’re bothering to lie, you didn’t get into trouble for it, did you? that friend of the Fat_Lady’s, that violet, she’s already told us all, Albus_Dumbledore’s letting you enter. a thousand galleons prize money, eh? and you don’t have to do end-of-year tests either …’ ‘i didn’t put my name in that goblet!’ said Harry_Potter, starting to feel angry. ‘yeah, ok,’ said Ronald_Weasley in exactly the same sceptical tone as Cedric_Diggory. ‘only you said this morning you’d have done it last night, and no one would’ve seen you … i’m not stupid, you know.’ ‘you’re doing a really good impression of it,’ Harry_Potter snapped. ‘yeah?’ said Ronald_Weasley and there was no trace of a grin, forCedric_Diggory or otherwise, on his face now. ‘you want to get to bed, Harry_Potter, i expect you’ll need to be up early tomorrow for a photocall or something.’ he wrenched the hangings shut around his four-poster, leaving Harry_Potter standing there by the door, staring at the dark red velvet curtains, now hiding one of the few people he had been sure would believe him. 