— chapter three — the invitation by the time Harry_Potter arrived in the kitchen, the three dursleys were already seated around the table. none of them looked up as he entered or sat down. uncle Vernon_Dursley’s large red face was hidden behind the morning’s daily mail and aunt Petunia_Dursley was cutting a grapefruit into quarters, her lips pursed over her horse-like teeth. Dudley_Dursley looked furious and sulky, and somehow seemed to be taking up even more space than usual. this was saying something, as he always took up an entire side of the square table by himself. when aunt Petunia_Dursley put a quarter of unsweetened grapefruit onto Dudley_Dursley’s plate with a tremulous ‘there you are, diddy darling’, Dudley_Dursley glowered at her. his life had taken a most unpleasant turn since he had come home for the summer with his end-of-year report. uncle Vernon_Dursley and aunt Petunia_Dursley had managed to find excuses for his bad marks as usual; aunt Petunia_Dursley always insisted that Dudley_Dursley was a very gifted boy whose teachers didn’t understand him, while uncle Vernon_Dursley maintained that ‘he didn’t want some swotty little nancy boy for a son anyway’. they also skated over the accusations of bullying in the report – ‘he’s a boisterous little boy, but he wouldn’t hurt a fly!’ said aunt Petunia_Dursley tearfully. however, at the bottom of the report there were a few well chosen comments from the school nurse which not even uncle Vernon_Dursley and aunt Petunia_Dursley could explain away. no matter how much aunt Petunia_Dursley wailed that Dudley_Dursley was big-boned, and that his poundage was really puppy-fat, and that he was a growing boy who needed plenty of food, the fact remained that the school outfitters didn’t stock kNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtonerbockers big enough for him any more. the school nurse had seen what aunt Petunia_Dursley’s eyes – so sharp when it came to spotting fingerprints on her gleaming walls, and in observing the comings and goings of the neighbours – simply refused to see: that, far from needing extra nourishment, Dudley_Dursley had reached roughly the size and weight of a young killer whale. so – after many tantrums, after arguments that shook Harry_Potter’s bedroom    floor, and many tears from aunt Petunia_Dursley – the new regime had begun. the diet sheet that had been sent by the smeltings school nurse had been taped to the fridge, which had been emptied of all Dudley_Dursley’s favourite things – fizzy drinks and cakes, chocolate bars and burgers – and filled instead with fruit and vegetables and the sorts of things that uncle Vernon_Dursley called ‘rabbit food’. to make Dudley_Dursley feel better about it all, aunt Petunia_Dursley had insisted that the whole family follow the diet too. she now passed a grapefruit quarter to Harry_Potter. he noticed that it was a lot smaller than Dudley_Dursley’s. aunt Petunia_Dursley seemed to feel that the best way to keep up Dudley_Dursley’s morale was to make sure that he did, at least, get more to eat than Harry_Potter. but aunt Petunia_Dursley didn’t know what was hidden under the loose floorboard upstairs. she had no idea that Harry_Potter was not following the diet at all. the moment he had got wind of the fact that he was expected to survive the summer on carrot sticks, Harry_Potter had sent Hedwig to his friends with pleas for help, and they had risen to the occasion magnificently. Hedwig had returned from Hermione_Granger’s house with a large box stuffed full of sugar-free snacks (Hermione_Granger’s parents were dentists). Rubeus_Hagrid, the hogwarts gamekeeper, had obliged with a sack full of his own home-made rock cakes (Harry_Potter hadn’t touched these; he had had too much experience of Rubeus_Hagrid’s Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning). Molly_Weasley, however, had sent the family owl, Errol, with an enormous fruitcake and assorted pasties. poor Errol, who was elderly and feeble, had needed a full five days to recover from the journey. and then on Harry_Potter’s birthday (which Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had completely ignored) he had received four superb birthday cakes, one each from Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger, Rubeus_Hagrid and Sirius_Black. Harry_Potter still had two of them left, and so, looking forward to a real breakfast when he got back upstairs, he started eating his grapefruit without complaint. uncle Vernon_Dursley laid aside his paper with a deep sniff of disapproval and looked down at his own grapefruit quarter. ‘is this it?’ he said grumpily to aunt Petunia_Dursley. aunt Petunia_Dursley gave him a severe look, and then nodded pointedly at Dudley_Dursley, who had already finished his own grapefruit quarter, and was eyeing Harry_Potter’s with a very sour look in his piggy little eyes. uncle Vernon_Dursley gave a great sigh which ruffled his large, bushy moustache, and picked up his spoon. the doorbell rang. uncle Vernon_Dursley heaved himself out of his chair and set off down the hall. quick as a flash, while his mother was occupied with the kettle, Dudley_Dursley stole the rest of uncle Vernon_Dursley’s grapefruit. Harry_Potter heard talking at the door, and someone laughing, and uncle Vernon_Dursley answering curtly. then the front door closed, and the sound of ripping paper came from the hall. aunt Petunia_Dursley set the teapot down on the table and looked curiously around to see where uncle Vernon_Dursley had got to. she didn’t have to wait long to find out; after about a minute, he was back. he looked livid. ‘you,’ he barked at Harry_Potter. ‘in the living room. now.’ bewildered, wondering what on earth he was supposed to have done this time, Harry_Potter got up and followed uncle Vernon_Dursley out of the kitchen and into the next room. uncle Vernon_Dursley closed the door sharply behind both of them. ‘so,’ he said, marching over to the fireplace and turning to face Harry_Potter as though he was about to pronounce him under arrest. ‘so.’ Harry_Potter would have dearly loved to have said ‘so what?’, but he didn’t feel that uncle Vernon_Dursley’s temper should be tested this early in the morning, especially when it was already under severe strain from lack of food. he therefore settled for looking politely puzzled. ‘this just arrived,’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley. he brandished a piece of purple writing paper at Harry_Potter. ‘a letter. about you.’ Harry_Potter’s confusion increased. who would be writing to uncle Vernon_Dursley about him? who did he know who sent letters by the postman? uncle Vernon_Dursley glared at Harry_Potter, then looked down at the letter, and began to read aloud: dear mr and mrs dursley, we have never been introduced, but i am sure you have heard a great deal from Harry_Potter about my son Ronald_Weasley as Harry_Potter might have told you, the final of the quidditch world cup takes place next monday night, and my husband, Arthur_Weasley, has just managed to get prime tickets through his connections at the department of magical games and sports. i do Hope_Howell you will allow us to take Harry_Potter to the match, as this really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity; bRita_Skeeterin hasn’t hosted the cup for thirty years and tickets are extremely hard to come by. we would of course be glad to have Harry_Potter to stay for the remainder of the summer holidays, and to see him safely onto the train back to school. it would be best for Harry_Potter to send us your answer as quickly as possible in the normal way, because the muggle postman has never delivered to our house, and i am not sure he even knows where it is. hoping to see Harry_Potter soon,  yours sincerely, Molly_Weasley p.s. i do Hope_Howell we’ve put enough stamps on. uncle Vernon_Dursley finished reading, put his hand back into his breast pocket, and drew out something else. ‘look at this,’ he growled. he held up the envelope in which Molly_Weasley’s letter had come, and Harry_Potter had to fight down a laugh. every bit of it was covered in stamps except for a square inch on the front, into which Molly_Weasley had squeezed Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’ address in minute writing. ‘she did put enough stamps on, then,’ said Harry_Potter, trying to sound as though Molly_Weasley’s was a mistake anyone could make. his uncle’s eyes flashed. ‘the postman noticed,’ he said through gritted teeth. ‘very interested to know where this letter came from, he was. that’s why he rang the doorbell. seemed to think it was funny.’ Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. other people might not understand why uncle Vernon_Dursley was making a fuss about too many stamps, but Harry_Potter had lived with Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley too long not to know how touchy they were about anything even slightly out of the ordinary. their worst fear was that anyone would find out that they were connected (however distantly) with people like Molly_Weasley. uncle Vernon_Dursley was still glaring at Harry_Potter, who tried to keep his expression neutral. if he didn’t do or say anything stupid, he might just be in for the treat of a lifetime. he waited for uncle Vernon_Dursley to say something, but he merely continued to glare. Harry_Potter decided to break the silence. ‘so – can i go, then?’ he asked. a slight spasm crossed uncle Vernon_Dursley’s large, purple face. the moustache bristled. Harry_Potter thought he knew what was going on behind the moustache: a furious battle as two of uncle Vernon_Dursley’s most fundamental instincts came into conflict. allowing Harry_Potter to go would make Harry_Potter happy, something uncle Vernon_Dursley had struggled against for thirteen years. on the other hand, allowing Harry_Potter to disappear to the weasleys’ for the rest of the summer would get rid of him two weeks earlier than anyone could have Hope_Howelld, and uncle Vernon_Dursley hated having Harry_Potter in the house. to give himself thinking time, it seemed, he looked down at Molly_Weasley’s letter again. ‘who is this woman?’ he said, staring at the signature with distaste. ‘you’ve seen her,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘she’s my friend ron’s mother, she was meeting him off the hog– off the school train at the end of last term.’  he had almost said ‘hogwarts express’, and that was a sure way to get his uncle’s temper up. nobody ever mentioned the name of Harry_Potter’s school aloud in the dursley household. uncle Vernon_Dursley screwed up his enormous face as though trying to remember something very unpleasant. ‘dumpy sort of woman?’ he growled finally. ‘load of children with red hair?’ Harry_Potter frowned. he thought it was a bit rich of uncle Vernon_Dursley to call anyone ‘dumpy’, when his own son, Dudley_Dursley, had finally achieved what he’d been threatening to do since the age of three, and become wider than he was tall. uncle Vernon_Dursley was perusing the letter again. ‘quidditch,’ he muttered under his breath. ‘quidditch – what is this rubbish?’ Harry_Potter felt a second stab of annoyance. ‘it’s a sport,’ he said shortly. ‘played on broom–’ ‘all right, all right!’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley loudly. Harry_Potter saw, with some satisfaction, that his uncle looked vaguely paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtony. apparently his nerves wouldn’t stand the sound of the word ‘broomsticks’ in his living room. he took refuge in perusing the letter again. Harry_Potter saw his lips form the words ‘send us your answer in the normal way’. he scowled. ‘what does she mean, the normal way?’ he spat. ‘normal for us,’ said Harry_Potter, and before his uncle could stop him, he added, ‘you know, owl post. that’s what’s normal for wizards.’ uncle Vernon_Dursley looked as outraged as if Harry_Potter had just uttered a disgusting swear word. shaking with anger, he shot a nervy look through the window, as though expecting to see some of the neighbours with their ears pressed against the glass. ‘how many times do i have to tell you not to mention that unnaturalness under my roof?’ he hissed, his face now a rich plum colour. ‘you stand there, in the clothes Petunia_Dursley and i have put on your ungrateful back –’ ‘only after Dudley_Dursley finished with them,’ said Harry_Potter coldly, and indeed, he was dressed in a sweatshirt so large for him that he had had to roll back the sleeves five times so as to be able to use his hands, and which fell past the knees of his extremely baggy jeans. ‘i will not be spoken to like that!’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley, trembling with rage. but Harry_Potter wasn’t going to stand for this. gone were the days when he had been forced to take every single one of Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley’ stupid rules. he wasn’t following Dudley_Dursley’s diet, and he wasn’t going to let uncle Vernon_Dursley stop him going to the quidditch world cup, not if he could help it. Harry_Potter took a deep, steadying breath and then said, ‘ok, i can’t see the world cup. can i go now, then? only i’ve got a letter to Sirius_Black i want to finish. you know – my godfather.’ he had done it. he had said the magic words. now he watched the purple recede blotchily from uncle Vernon_Dursley’s face, making it look like badly mixed blackcurrant ice-cream. ‘you’re – you’re writing to him, are you?’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley, in a would- be calm voice – but Harry_Potter had seen the pupils of his tiny eyes contract with sudden fear. ‘well – yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, casually. ‘it’s been a while since he heard from me, and, you know, if he doesn’t, he might start thinking something’s wrong.’ he stopped there to enjoy the effect of these words. he could almost see the cogs working under uncle Vernon_Dursley’s thick, dark, neatly parted hair. if he tried to stop Harry_Potter writing to Sirius_Black, Sirius_Black would think Harry_Potter was being mistreated. if he told Harry_Potter he couldn’t go to the quidditch world cup, Harry_Potter would write and tell Sirius_Black, who would know he was being mistreated. there was only one thing for uncle Vernon_Dursley to do. Harry_Potter could see the conclusion forming in his mind as though the great moustached face was transparent. Harry_Potter tried not to smile, to keep his own face as blank as possible. and then – ‘well, all right then. you can go to this ruddy … this stupid … this world cup thing. you write and tell these – these weasleys they’re to pick you up, mind. i haven’t got time to go dropping you off all over the country. and you can spend the rest of the summer there. and you can tell your – your godfather … tell him … tell him you’re going.’ ‘ok then,’ said Harry_Potter brightly. he turned and walked towards the living-room door, fighting the urge to jump into the air and whoop. he was going … he was going to the weasleys’, he was going to watch the quidditch world cup! outside in the hall he nearly ran into Dudley_Dursley, who had been lurking behind the door, clearly hoping to overhear Harry_Potter being told off. he looked shocked to see the broad grin on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘that was an excellent breakfast, wasn’t it?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i feel really full, don’t you?’ laughing at the astonished look on Dudley_Dursley’s face, Harry_Potter took the stairs three at a time, and hurled himself back into his bedroom. the first thing he saw was that Hedwig was back. she was sitting in her cage, staring at Harry_Potter with her enormous amber eyes, and clicking her beak in the way that meant she was annoyed about something. exactly what was annoying her became apparent almost at once. ‘ouch!’ said Harry_Potter. what appeared to be a small, grey, feathery tennis ball had just collided with the side of Harry_Potter’s head. Harry_Potter massaged his head furiously, looking up to see what had hit him, and saw a minute owl, small enough to fit into the palm of his hand, whizzing excitedly around the room like a loose firework. Harry_Potter then realised that the owl had dropped a letter at his feet. Harry_Potter bent down, recognised ron’s handwriting, then tore open the envelope. inside was a hastily scribbled note. Harry_Potter – dad got the tickets – ireland versus bulgaria, monday night. mum’s writing to the muggles to ask you to stay. they might already have the letter, i don’t know how fast muggle post is. thought i’d send this withPigwidgeonanyway. Harry_Potter stared at the word ‘pig’, then looked up at the tiny owl now zooming around the lampshade on the ceiling. he had never seen anything that looked less like a pig. maybe he couldn’t read ron’s writing. he went back to the letter: we’re coming for you whether the muggles like it or not, you can’t miss the world cup, only mum and dad reckon it’s better if we pretend to ask their permission first. if they say yes, sendPigwidgeonback with your answer pronto, and we’ll come and get you at five o’clock on sunday. if they say no, sendPigwidgeonback pronto and we’ll come and get you at five o’clock on sunday anyway. Hermione_Granger’s arriving this afternoon. Percy_Weasley’s started work – the department of international magical co-operation. don’t mention anything about abroad while you’re here unless you want the pants bored off you. see you soon – Ronald_Weasley ‘calm down!’ Harry_Potter said, as the small owl flew low over his head, twittering madly with what Harry_Potter could only assume was pride at having delivered the letter to the right person. ‘come here, i need you to take my answer back!’ the owl fluttered down on top of Hedwig’s cage. Hedwig looked coldly up     at it, as though daring it to try and come any closer. Harry_Potter seized his eagle-feather quill once more, grabbed a fresh piece of parchment, and wrote: Ronald_Weasley it’s all ok, the muggles say i can come. see you five o’clock tomorrow. can’t wait. Harry_Potter he folded this note up very small and, with immense difficulty, tied it to the tiny owl’s leg as it hopped on the spot with excitement. the moment the note was secure, the owl was off again; it zoomed out of the window and out of sight. Harry_Potter turned to Hedwig. ‘feeling up to a long journey?’ he asked her. Hedwig hooted in a dignified sort of way. ‘can you take this to Sirius_Black for me?’ he said, picking up his letter. ‘hang on … i just want to finish it.’ he unfolded the parchment again and hastily added a postscript. if you want to contact me, i’ll be at my friend Ronald_Weasley weasley’s for the rest of the summer. his dad’s got us tickets for the quidditch world cup! the letter finished, he tied it to Hedwig’s leg; she kept unusually still, as though determined to show him how a real post owl should behave. ‘i’ll be at ron’s when you get back, all right?’ Harry_Potter told her. she nipped his finger affectionately, then, with a soft swooshing noise, spread her enormous wings and soared out of the open window. Harry_Potter watched her out of sight, then crawled under his bed, wrenched up the loose floorboard, and pulled out a large chunk of birthday cake. he sat there on the floor eating it, savouring the happiness that was flooding through him. he had cake, and Dudley_Dursley had nothing but grapefruit; it was a bright summer’s day, he would be leaving privet drive tomorrow, his scar felt perfectly normal again, and he was going to watch the quidditch world cup. it was hard, just now, to feel worried about anything – even Tom_Riddle.     