— chapter eighteen — the weighing of the wands when Harry_Potter woke up on sunday morning, it took him a moment to remember why he felt so miserable and worried. then the memory of the previous night rolled over him. he sat up and ripped back the curtains of his own four-poster, intending to talk to ron, to forceRonald_Weasleyto believe him – only to find that ron’s bed was empty; he had obviously gone down to breakfast. Harry_Potter dressed and went down the spiral staircase into the common room. the moment he appeared, the people who had already finished breakfast broke into applause again. the prospect of going down into the great hall and facing the rest of the gryffindors, all treating him like some sort of hero, was not inviting; it was that, however, or stay here and allow himself to be cornered by the Creevey_brothers'_father brothers, who were both beckoning frantically to him to join them. he walked resolutely over to the portrait hole, pushed it open, climbed out of it and found himself face to face with Hermione_Granger. ‘hello,’ she said, holding up a stack of toast, which she was carrying in a napkin. ‘i brought you this … want to go for a walk?’ ‘good idea,’ said Harry_Potter, gratefully. they went downstairs, crossed the entrance hall quickly without looking in at the great hall, and were soon striding across the lawn towards the lake, where the durmstrang ship was moored, reflected blackly in the water. it was a chilly morning, and they kept moving, munching their toast, as Harry_Potter told Hermione_Granger exactly what had happened after he had left the gryffindor table the night before. to his immense relief, Hermione_Granger accepted his story without question. ‘well, of course, i knew you hadn’t entered yourself,’ she said, when he’d finished telling her about the scene in the chamber off the hall. ‘the look on your face when Albus_Dumbledore read out your name! but the question is, who did put it in? because moody’s right, Harry_Potter … i don’t think any student could have done it … they’d never be able to fool the goblet, or get over Albus_Dumbledore’s –’ ‘have you seen ron?’ Harry_Potter interrupted.    Hermione_Granger hesitated. ‘erm … yes … he was at breakfast,’ she said. ‘does he still think i entered myself?’ ‘well … no, i don’t think so … not really,’ said Hermione_Granger awkwardly. ‘what’s that supposed to mean, not really?’ ‘oh, Harry_Potter, isn’t it obvious?’ Hermione_Granger said despairingly. ‘he’s jealous!’ ‘jealous?’ Harry_Potter said incredulously. ‘jealous of what? he wants to make a prat of himself in front of the whole school, does he?’ ‘look,’ said Hermione_Granger patiently, ‘it’s always you who gets all the attention, you know it is. i know it’s not your fault,’ she added quickly, seeing Harry_Potter open his mouth furiously, ‘i know you don’t ask for it … but – well – you know, ron’s got all those brothers to compete against at home, and you’re his best friend, and you’re really famous – he’s always shunted to one side whenever people see you, and he puts up with it, and he never mentions it, but i suppose this is just one time too many …’ ‘great,’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘really great. tell him from me i’ll swap any time he wants. tell him from me he’s welcome to it … people gawping at my forehead everywhere i go …’ ‘i’m not telling him anything,’ Hermione_Granger said shortly. ‘tell him yourself, it’s the only way to sort this out.’ ‘i’m not running around after him trying to make him grow up!’ Harry_Potter said, so loudly that several owls in a nearby tree took flight in alarm. ‘maybe he’ll believe i’m not enjoying myself once i’ve got my neck broken or –’ ‘that’s not funny,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly. ‘that’s not funny at all.’ she looked extremely anxious. ‘Harry_Potter, i’ve been thinking – you know what we’ve got to do, don’t you? straight away, the moment we get back to the castle?’ ‘yeah, giveRonald_Weasleya good kick up the –’ ‘write to Sirius_Black. you’ve got to tell him what’s happened. he asked you to keep him posted on everything that’s going on at hogwarts … it’s almost like he expected something like this to happen. i brought some parchment and a quill out with me –’ ‘come off it,’ said Harry_Potter, looking around to check that they couldn’t be overheard; but the grounds were quite deserted. ‘he came back to the country just because my scar twinged. he’ll probably come bursting right into the castle if i tell him someone’s entered me for the triwizard tournament –’ ‘he’d want you to tell him,’ said Hermione_Granger sternly. ‘he’s going to find out anyway –’ ‘how?’ ‘Harry_Potter, this isn’t going to be kept quiet,’ said Hermione_Granger, very seriously. ‘this tournament’s famous, and you’re famous, i’ll be really surprised if there isn’t anything in the daily prophet about you competing … you’re already in half the books about Tom_Riddle, you know … and Sirius_Black would rather hear it from you, i know he would.’ ‘ok, ok, i’ll write to him,’ said Harry_Potter, throwing his last piece of toast into the lake. they both stood and watched it floating there for a moment, before a large tentacle rose out of the water and scooped it beneath the surface. then they returned to the castle. ‘whose owl am i going to use?’ Harry_Potter said, as they climbed the stairs. ‘he told me not to use Hedwig again.’ ‘askRonald_Weasleyif you can borrow –’ ‘i’m not askingRonald_Weasleyanything,’ Harry_Potter said flatly. ‘well, borrow one of the school owls, then, anyone can use them,’ said Hermione_Granger. they went up to the owlery. Hermione_Granger gave Harry_Potter a piece of parchment, a quill and a bottle of ink, then strolled around the long lines of perches, looking at all the different owls, while Harry_Potter sat down against a wall and wrote his letter. dear Sirius_Black, you told me to keep you posted on what’s happening at hogwarts, so here goes – i don’t know if you’ve heard, but the triwizard tournament’s happening this year and on saturday night i got picked as a fourth champion. i don’t know who put my name in the goblet of fire, because i didn’t. the other hogwarts champion is Cedric_Diggory diggory, from hufflepuff. he paused at this point, thinking. he had an urge to say something about the large weight of anxiety that seemed to have settled inside his chest since last night, but he couldn’t think how to translate this into words, so he simply dipped his quill back into the ink bottle and wrote: Hope_Howell you’re ok, and Buckbeak – Harry_Potter. ‘finished,’ he told Hermione_Granger, getting to his feet and brushing straw off his     robes. at this, Hedwig came fluttering down onto his shoulder, and held out her leg. ‘i can’t use you,’ Harry_Potter told her, looking around for the school owls. ‘i’ve got to use one of these …’ Hedwig gave a very loud hoot, and took off so suddenly that her talons cut into his shoulder. she kept her back to Harry_Potter all the time he was tying his letter to the leg of a large barn owl. when the barn owl had flown off, Harry_Potter reached out to stroke Hedwig, but she clicked her beak furiously and soared up into the rafters out of reach. ‘first ron, then you,’ said Harry_Potter angrily. ‘this isn’t my fault.’ * if Harry_Potter had thought that matters would improve once everyone got used to the idea of him being champion, the following day showed him how mistaken he was. he could no longer avoid the rest of the school once he was back at lessons – and it was clear that the rest of the school, just like the gryffindors, thought Harry_Potter had entered himself for the tournament. unlike the gryffindors, however, they did not seem impressed. the hufflepuffs, who were usually on excellent terms with the gryffindors, had turned remarkably cold towards the whole lot of them. one herbology lesson was enough to demonstrate this. it was plain that the hufflepuffs felt that Harry_Potter had stolen their champion’s glory; a feeling exacerbated, perhaps, by the fact that hufflepuff house very rarely got any glory, and that Cedric_Diggory was one of the few who had ever given them any, having beaten gryffindor once at quidditch. Ernest_Prangmacmillan and Justin_Finch-Fletchley finch-fletchley, with whom Harry_Potter normally got on very well, did not talk to him even though they were re-potting bouncing bulbs at the same tray – though they did laugh rather unpleasantly when one of the bouncing bulbs wriggled free from Harry_Potter’s grip and smacked him hard in the face.Ronald_Weasleywasn’t talking to Harry_Potter either. Hermione_Granger sat between them, making very forced conversation, but though both answered her normally, they avoided making eye contact with each other. Harry_Potter thought even professor sprout seemed diStanley_Shunpiket with him – but then, she was head of hufflepuff house. he would have been looking forward to seeing Rubeus_Hagrid under normal circumStanley_Shunpikeces, but care of Magic_goblinal creatures meant seeing the slytherins, too – the first time he would come face to face with them since becoming champion. predictably, malfoy arrived at Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin with his familiar sneer firmly in place. ‘ah, look, boys, it’s the champion,’ he said to crabbe and Goyle, the moment he got within earshot of Harry_Potter. ‘got your autograph books? better get a signature now, because i doubt he’s going to be around much longer … half the triwizard champions have died … how long d’you reckon you’re going to last, potter? ten minutes into the first task’s my bet.’ crabbe and Goyle guffawed sycophantically, but malfoy had to stop there, because Rubeus_Hagrid emerged from the back of his cabin, holding a teetering tower of crates, each containing a very large Blast-Ended_Skrewt skrewt. to the class’s horror, Rubeus_Hagrid proceeded to explain that the reason the skrewts had been killing each other was an excess of pent-up energy, and that the solution would be for each of the class to fix a leash on a skrewt and take it for a short walk. the only good thing about this plan was that it distracted malfoy completely. ‘take this thing for a walk?’ he repeated in disgust, staring into one of the boxes. ‘and where exactly are we supposed to fix the leash? around the sting, the blasting end or the sucker?’ ‘roun’ the middle,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, demonstrating. ‘er – yeh might want ter put on yer dragon-hide gloves, jus’ as an extra precaution, like. Harry_Potter – you come here an’ help me with this big one …’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s real intention, however, was to talk to Harry_Potter away from the rest of the class. he waited until everyone else had set off with their skrewts, then turned to Harry_Potter and said, very seriously, ‘so – yer competin’, Harry_Potter. in the tournament. school champion.’ ‘one of the champions,’ Harry_Potter corrected him. Rubeus_Hagrid’s beetle-black eyes looked very anxious under his wild eyebrows. ‘no idea who put yeh in fer it, Harry_Potter?’ ‘you believe i didn’t do it, then?’ said Harry_Potter, concealing with difficulty the rush of gratitude he felt at Rubeus_Hagrid’s words. ‘’course i do,’ Rubeus_Hagrid grunted. ‘yeh say it wasn’ you, an’ i believe yeh – an’ Albus_Dumbledore believes yer, an’ all.’ ‘wish i knew who did do it,’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. the pair of them looked out over the lawn; the class was widely scattered now, and all in great difficulty. the skrewts were now over three feet long, and extremely powerful. no longer shell-less and colourless, they had developed a kind of thick, greyish shiny armour. they looked like a cross between giant scorpions and elongated crabs – but still without recognisable heads or eyes. they had become immensely strong, and very hard to control. ‘look like they’re havin’ fun, don’ they?’ Rubeus_Hagrid said happily. Harry_Potter assumed he was talking about the skrewts, because his classmates certainly weren’t; every now and then, with an alarming bang, one of the skrewts’ ends would explode, causing it to shoot forward several yards, and more than one person was being dragged along on their stomach, trying desperately to get back on their feet. ‘ah, i don’ know, Harry_Potter,’ Rubeus_Hagrid sighed suddenly, looking back down at him with a worried expression on his face. ‘school champion … everythin’ seems ter happen ter you, doesn’ it?’ Harry_Potter didn’t answer. yes, everything did seem to happen to him … that was more or less what Hermione_Granger had said as they had walked around the lake, and that was the reason, according to her, thatRonald_Weasleywas no longer talking to him. * the next few days were some of Harry_Potter’s worst at hogwarts. the closest he had ever come to feeling like this had been during those months, in his second year, when a large part of the school had suspected him of attacking his fellow students. butRonald_Weasleyhad been on his side then. he thought he could have coped with the rest of the school’s behaviour if he could just have hadRonald_Weasleyback as a friend, but he wasn’t going to try and persuadeRonald_Weasleyto talk to him ifRonald_Weasleydidn’t want to. nevertheless, it was lonely, with dislike pouring in on him from all sides. he could underStanley_Shunpiked the hufflepuffs’ attitudes, even if he didn’t like it; they had their own champion to support. he expected nothing less than vicious insults from the slytherins – he was highly unpopular there and always had been, as he had helped gryffindor beat them so often, both at quidditch and in the inter-house championship. but he had Hope_Howelld the ravenclaws might have found it in their hearts to support him as much as Cedric_Diggory. he was wrong, however. most ravenclaws seemed to think that he had been desperate to earn himself a bit more fame by tricking the goblet into accepting his name. then there was the fact that Cedric_Diggory looked the part of a champion so much more than he did. exceptionally handsome, with his straight nose, dark hair and grey eyes, it was hard to say who was receiving more admiration these days, Cedric_Diggory or Viktor_Krum krum. Harry_Potter actually saw the same sixth-year girls who had been so keen to get krum’s autograph, begging Cedric_Diggory to sign their schoolbags one lunchtime. meanwhile there was no reply from Sirius_Black, Hedwig was refusing to come anywhere near him, professor trelawney was predicting his death with even more certainty than usual, and he did so badly at summoning charms in professor flitwick’s class that he was given extra homework – the only person to get any, apart from Neville_Longbottom. ‘it’s really not that difficult, Harry_Potter,’ Hermione_Granger tried to reassure him, as they left flitwick’s class – she had been making objects zoom across the room to her all lesson, as though she was some sort of weird magnet for board dusters, wastepaper baskets and Luna_Lovegoodscopes. ‘you just weren’t concentrating properly –’ ‘wonder why that was?’ said Harry_Potter darkly, as Cedric_Diggory diggory walked past, surrounded by a large group of simpering girls, all of whom looked at Harry_Potter as though he was a particularly large Blast-Ended_Skrewt skrewt. ‘still – never mind, eh? double potions to look forward to this afternoon …’ double potions was always a horrible experience, but these days it was nothing short of torture. being shut in a Mundungus_Fletchereon for an hour and a half with snape and the slytherins, all of whom seemed determined to punish Harry_Potter as much as possible for daring to become school champion, was about the most unpleasant thing Harry_Potter could imagine. he had already struggled through one friday’s worth, with Hermione_Granger sitting next to him, intoning ‘ignore them, ignore them, ignore them’ under her breath, and he couldn’t see why today should be any better. when he and Hermione_Granger arrived outside snape’s Mundungus_Fletchereon after lunch, they found the slytherins waiting outside, each and every one of them wearing a large badge on the front of his or her robes. for one wild moment Harry_Potter thought they were s.p.e.w. badges – then he saw that they all bore the same message, in luminous red letters that burnt brightly in the dimly lit underground passage: support Cedric_Diggory diggory – the real hogwarts champion! ‘like them, potter?’ said malfoy loudly, as Harry_Potter approached. ‘and this isn’t all they do – look!’ he pressed his badge into his chest, and the message upon it vanished, to be replaced by another one, which glowed green: potter stinks the slytherins howled with laughter. each of them pressed their badges, too, until the message potter stinks was shining brightly all around Harry_Potter. he     felt the heat rise in his face and neck. ‘oh, very funny,’ Hermione_Granger said sarcastically to Pansy_Parkinson parkinson and her gang of slytherin girls, who were laughing harder than anyone, ‘really witty.’Ronald_Weasleywas Stanley_Shunpikeding against the wall with Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan. he wasn’t laughing, but he wasn’t sticking up for Harry_Potter either. ‘want one, granger?’ said malfoy, holding out a badge to Hermione_Granger. ‘i’ve got loads. but don’t touch my hand, now. i’ve just washed it, you see, don’t want a mudblood sliming it up.’ some of the anger Harry_Potter had been feeling for days and days seemed to burst through a dam in his chest. he had reached for his wand before he’d thought what he was doing. people all around them scrambled out of the way, backing down the corridor. ‘Harry_Potter!’ Hermione_Granger said warningly. ‘go on, then, potter,’ malfoy said quietly, drawing out his own wand. ‘moody’s not here to look after you now – do it, if you’ve got the guts –’ for a split second, they looked into each other’s eyes, then, at exactly the same time, both acted. ‘furnunculus!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘densaugeo!’ screamed malfoy. jets of light shot from both wands, hit each other in mid-air, and ricocheted off at angles – Harry_Potter’s hit Goyle in the face, and malfoy’s hit Hermione_Granger. Goyle bellowed and put his hands to his nose, where great ugly boils were springing up – Hermione_Granger, whimpering in panic, was clutching her mouth. ‘Hermione_Granger!’Ronald_Weasleyhad hurried forwards to see what was wrong with her. Harry_Potter turned and sawRonald_Weasleydragging Hermione_Granger’s hand away from her face. it wasn’t a pretty sight. Hermione_Granger’s front teeth – already larger than average – were now growing at an alarming rate; she was looking more and more like a beaver as her teeth elongated, past her bottom lip, towards her chin – panic- stricken, she felt them, and let out a terrified cry. ‘and what is all this noise about?’ said a soft, deadly voice. snape had arrived. the slytherins clamoured to give their explanations. snape pointed a long yellow finger at malfoy and said, ‘explain.’ ‘potter attacked me, sir –’ ‘we attacked each other at the same time!’ Harry_Potter shouted. ‘– and he hit Goyle – look –’ snape examined Goyle, whose face now resembled something that would have been at home in a book on poisonous fungi. ‘hospital wing, Goyle,’ snape said calmly. ‘malfoy got Hermione_Granger!’Ronald_Weasleysaid. ‘look!’ he forced Hermione_Granger to show snape her teeth – she was doing her best to hide them with her hands, though this was difficult as they had now grown down past her collar. Pansy_Parkinson parkinson and the other slytherin girls were doubled up with silent giggles, pointing at Hermione_Granger from behind snape’s back. snape looked coldly at Hermione_Granger, then said, ‘i see no difference.’ Hermione_Granger let out a whimper; her eyes filled with tears, she turned on her heel and ran, ran all the way up the corridor and out of sight. it was lucky, perhaps, that both Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleystarted shouting at snape at the same time; lucky their voices echoed so much in the stone corridor, for in the confused din, it was impossible for him to hear exactly what they were calling him. he got the gist, however. ‘let’s see,’ he said, in his silkiest voice. ‘fifty points from gryffindor and a detention each for potter and weasley. now get inside, or it’ll be a week’s worth of detentions.’ Harry_Potter’s ears were ringing. the injustice of it made him want to curse snape into a thousand slimy pieces. he passed snape, walked withRonald_Weasleyto the back of the Mundungus_Fletchereon, and slammed his bag down onto the table.Ronald_Weasleywas shaking with anger, too – for a moment, it felt as though everything was back to normal between them, but thenRonald_Weasleyturned, and sat down with Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan instead, leaving Harry_Potter alone at his table. on the other side of the Mundungus_Fletchereon, malfoy turned his back on snape, and pressed his badge, smirking. potter stinks flashed once more across the room. Harry_Potter sat there staring at snape as the lesson began, picturing horrific things happening to him … if only he knew how to do the cruciatus curse … he’d have snape flat on his back like that spider, jerking and twitching … ‘antidotes!’ said snape, looking around at them all, his cold black eyes glittering unpleasantly. ‘you should all have prepared your recipes now. i want you to brew them carefully, and then we will be selecting someone on whom to test one …’ snape’s eyes met Harry_Potter’s, and Harry_Potter knew what was coming. snape was going to poison him. Harry_Potter imagined picking up his cauldron, and sprinting to the front of the class, and bringing it down on snape’s greasy head – and then a knock on the Mundungus_Fletchereon door burst in on Harry_Potter’s thoughts. it was Colin_Creevey Creevey_brothers'_father; he edged into the room, beaming at Harry_Potter, and walked up to snape’s desk at the front of the room. ‘yes?’ said snape curtly. ‘please, sir, i’m supposed to take Harry_Potter potter upstairs.’ snape stared down his hooked nose at Colin_Creevey, whose smile faded from his eager face. ‘potter has another hour of potions to complete,’ said snape coldly. ‘he will come upstairs when this class is finished.’ Colin_Creevey went pink. ‘sir – sir, mr bagman wants him,’ he said nervously. ‘all the champions have got to go, i think they want to take photographs …’ Harry_Potter would have given anything he owned to have stopped Colin_Creevey saying those last few words. he chanced half a glance at ron, butRonald_Weasleywas staring determinedly at the ceiling. ‘very well, very well,’ snape snapped. ‘potter, leave your things here, i want you back down here later to test your antidote.’ ‘please, sir – he’s got to take his things with him,’ squeaked Colin_Creevey. ‘all the champions –’ ‘very well!’ said snape. ‘potter – take your bag and get out of my sight!’ Harry_Potter swung his bag over his shoulder, got up and headed for the door. as he walked through the slytherin desks, potter stinks flashed at him from every direction. ‘it’s amazing, isn’t it, Harry_Potter?’ said Colin_Creevey, starting to speak the moment Harry_Potter had closed the Mundungus_Fletchereon door behind him. ‘isn’t it, though? you being champion?’ ‘yeah, really amazing,’ said Harry_Potter heavily, as they set off towards the steps into the entrance hall. ‘what do they want photos for, Colin_Creevey?’ ‘the daily prophet, i think!’ ‘great,’ said Harry_Potter, dully. ‘exactly what i need. more publicity.’ ‘good luck!’ said Colin_Creevey, when they had reached the right room. Harry_Potter knocked on the door, and entered. he was in a fairly small classroom; most of the desks had been pushed away to the back of the room, leaving a large space in the middle; three of them, however, had been placed, end to end, in front of the blackboard, and covered with a long length of velvet. five chairs had been set behind the velvet-covered desks, and Ludovic_Bagman bagman was sitting in one of them, talking to a witch Harry_Potter had never seen before, who was wearing magenta robes. Viktor_Krum krum was Stanley_Shunpikeding moodily in a corner as usual, and not talking to anybody. Cedric_Diggory and Fleur_Delacour were in conversation. Fleur_Delacour looked a good deal happier than Harry_Potter had seen her so far; she kept throwing back her head so that her long silvery hair caught the light. a paunchy man, holding a large black camera which was smoking slightly, was watching Fleur_Delacour out of the corner of his eye. bagman suddenly spotted Harry_Potter, got up quickly and bounded forwards. ‘ah, here he is! champion number four! in you come, Harry_Potter, in you come … nothing to worry about, it’s just the wand weighing ceremony, the rest of the judges will be here in a moment –’ ‘wand weighing?’ Harry_Potter repeated nervously. ‘we have to check that your wands are fully functional, no problems, you know, as they’re your most important tools in the tasks ahead,’ said bagman. ‘the expert’s upstairs now with Albus_Dumbledore. and then there’s going to be a little photo shoot. this is Rita_Skeeter skeeter,’ he added, gesturing towards the witch in magenta robes, ‘she’s doing a small piece on the tournament for the daily prophet …’ ‘maybe not that small, Ludovic_Bagman,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, her eyes on Harry_Potter. her hair was set in elaborate and curiously rigid curls that contrasted oddly with her heavy-jawed face. she wore jewelled spectacles. the thick fingers clutching her crocodile-skin handbag ended in two-inch nails, painted crimson. ‘i wonder if i could have a little word with Harry_Potter before we start?’ she said to bagman, but still gazing fixedly at Harry_Potter. ‘the youngest champion, you know … to add a bit of colour?’ ‘certainly!’ cried bagman. ‘that is – if Harry_Potter has no objection?’ ‘er –’ said Harry_Potter. ‘lovely,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, and in a second, her scarlet-taloned fingers had Harry_Potter’s upper arm in a surprisingly strong grip, and she was steering him out of the room again, and opening a nearby door. ‘we don’t want to be in there with all that noise,’ she said. ‘let’s see … ah, yes, this is nice and cosy.’ it was a broom cupboard. Harry_Potter stared at her. ‘come along, dear – that’s right – lovely,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter again, perching herself precariously upon an upturned bucket, pushing Harry_Potter down onto a cardboard box and closing the door, throwing them into darkness. ‘let’s see now …’ she unsnapped her crocodile-skin handbag and pulled out a handful of candles, which she lit with a wave of her wand and Magic_goblinked into mid-air, so that they could see what they were doing. ‘you won’t mind, Harry_Potter, if i use a quick-quotes quill? it leaves me free to talk to you normally …’ ‘a what?’ said Harry_Potter. Rita_Skeeter skeeter’s smile widened. Harry_Potter counted three gold teeth. she reached again into her crocodile bag, and drew out a long acid-green quill and a roll of parchment, which she stretched out between them on a crate of mrs skower’s all-purpose Magic_goblinal mess-remover. she put the tip of the green quill into her mouth, sucked it for a moment with apparent relish, then placed it upright on the parchment, where it stood balanced on its point, quivering slightly. ‘testing … my name is Rita_Skeeter skeeter, daily prophet reporter.’ Harry_Potter looked down quickly at the quill. the moment Rita_Skeeter skeeter had spoken, the green quill had started to scribble, skidding across the parchment: attractive blonde Rita_Skeeter skeeter, forty-three, whose savage quill has punctured many inflated reputations – ‘lovely,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, yet again, and she ripped the top piece of parchment off, crumpled it up and stuffed it into her handbag. now she leant towards Harry_Potter and said, ‘so, Harry_Potter … what made you decide to enter the triwizard tournament?’ ‘er –’ said Harry_Potter again, but he was distracted by the quill. even though he wasn’t speaking, it was dashing across the parchment, and in its wake he could make out a fresh sentence: an ugly scar, souvenir of a tragic past, disfigures the otherwise charming face of Harry_Potter potter, whose eyes – ‘ignore the quill, Harry_Potter,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter firmly. reluctantly, Harry_Potter looked up at her instead. ‘now – why did you decide to enter the tournament, Harry_Potter?’ ‘i didn’t,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i don’t know how my name got into the goblet of fire. i didn’t put it in there.’ Rita_Skeeter skeeter raised one heavily pencilled eyebrow. ‘come now, Harry_Potter, there’s no need to be scared of getting into trouble. we all know you shouldn’t really have entered at all. but don’t worry about that. our readers love a rebel.’     ‘but i didn’t enter,’ Harry_Potter repeated. ‘i don’t know who –’ ‘how do you feel about the tasks ahead?’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter. ‘excited? nervous?’ ‘i haven’t really thought … yeah, nervous, i suppose,’ said Harry_Potter. his insides squirmed uncomfortably as he spoke. ‘champions have died in the past, haven’t they?’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter briskly. ‘have you thought about that at all?’ ‘well … they say it’s going to be a lot safer this year,’ said Harry_Potter. the quill whizzed across the parchment between them, back and forwards as though it was skating. ‘of course, you’ve looked death in the face before, haven’t you?’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, watching him closely. ‘how would you say that’s affected you?’ ‘er,’ said Harry_Potter, yet again. ‘do you think that the trauma in your past might have made you keen to prove yourself? to live up to your name? do you think that perhaps you were tempted to enter the triwizard tournament because –’ ‘i didn’t enter,’ said Harry_Potter, starting to feel irRita_Skeeterted. ‘can you remember your parents at all?’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, talking over him. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘how do you think they’d feel if they knew you were competing in the triwizard tournament? proud? worried? angry?’ Harry_Potter was feeling really annoyed now. how on earth was he to know how his parents would feel if they were alive? he could feel Rita_Skeeter skeeter watching him very intently. frowning, he avoided her gaze and looked down at the words the quill had just written. tears fill those startlingly green eyes as our conversation turns to the parents he can barely remember. ‘i have not got tears in my eyes!’ said Harry_Potter loudly. before Rita_Skeeter skeeter could say a word, the door of the broom cupboard was pulled open. Harry_Potter looked around, blinking in the bright light. Albus_Dumbledore Albus_Dumbledore stood there, looking down at both of them squashed into the cupboard. ‘Albus_Dumbledore!’ cried Rita_Skeeter skeeter, with every appearance of delight – but Harry_Potter noticed that her quill and the parchment had suddenly vanished from   the box of Magic_goblinal mess-remover, and Rita_Skeeter’s clawed fingers were hastily snapping shut the clasp of her crocodile-skin bag. ‘how are you?’ she said, Stanley_Shunpikeding up and holding out one of her large, mannish hands to Albus_Dumbledore. ‘i Hope_Howell you saw my piece over the summer about the international confederation of wizards’ conference?’ ‘enchantingly nasty,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. ‘i particularly enjoyed your description of me as an obsolete dingbat.’ Rita_Skeeter skeeter didn’t look remotely abashed. ‘i was just making the point that some of your ideas are a little old-fashioned, Albus_Dumbledore, and that many wizards in the street –’ ‘i will be delighted to hear the reasoning behind the rudeness, Rita_Skeeter,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, with a courteous bow and a smile, ‘but i’m afraid we will have to discuss the matter later. the weighing of the wands is about to start, and it cannot take place if one of our champions is hidden in a broom cupboard.’ very glad to get away from Rita_Skeeter skeeter, Harry_Potter hurried back into the room. the other champions were now sitting in chairs near the door, and he sat down quickly next to Cedric_Diggory, looking up at the velvet-covered table, where four of the five judges were now sitting – professor karkaroff, madame maxime, mr crouch and Ludovic_Bagman bagman. Rita_Skeeter skeeter settled herself down in a corner; Harry_Potter saw her slip the parchment out of her bag again, spread it on her knee, suck the end of the quick-quotes quill, and place it once more on the parchment. ‘may i introduce mr ollIvan_Volkovder?’ said Albus_Dumbledore, taking his place at the judges’ table, and talking to the champions. ‘he will be checking your wands to ensure that they are in good condition before the tournament.’ Harry_Potter looked around, and with a jolt of surprise saw an old wizard with large, pale eyes Stanley_Shunpikeding quietly by the window. Harry_Potter had met mr ollIvan_Volkovder before – he was the wand-maker from whom Harry_Potter had bought his own wand over three years ago in diagon alley. ‘mademoiselle delacour, could we have you forward first, please?’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, stepping into the empty space in the middle of the room. Fleur_Delacour delacour swept over to mr ollIvan_Volkovder, and handed him her wand. ‘hmmm …’ he said. he twirled the wand between his long fingers like a baton and it emitted a number of pink and gold sparks. then he held it close to his eyes and examined it carefully. ‘yes,’ he said quietly, ‘nine and a half inches … inflexible … rosewood … and containing … dear me …’ ‘an ’air from ze ’ead of a veela,’ said Fleur_Delacour. ‘one of my grandmuzzer’s.’ so Fleur_Delacour was part veela, thought Harry_Potter, making a mental note to tellRonald_Weasley… then he remembered thatRonald_Weasleywasn’t speaking to him. ‘yes,’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, ‘yes, i’ve never used veela hair myself, of course. i find it makes for rather temperamental wands … however, to each his own, and if this suits you …’ mr ollIvan_Volkovder ran his fingers along the wand, apparently checking for scratches or bumps; then he muttered, ‘orchideous!’ and a bunch of flowers burst from the wand tip. ‘very well, very well, it’s in fine working order,’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, scooping up the flowers and handing them to Fleur_Delacour with her wand. ‘mr diggory, you next.’ Fleur_Delacour glided back to her seat, smiling at Cedric_Diggory as he passed her. ‘ah, now, this is one of mine, isn’t it?’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, with much more enthusiasm, as Cedric_Diggory handed over his wand. ‘yes, i remember it well. containing a single hair from the tail of a particularly fine male unicorn … must have been seventeen hands; nearly gored me with his horn after i plucked his tail. twelve and a quarter inches … ash … pleasantly springy. it’s in fine condition … you treat it regularly?’ ‘polished it last night,’ said Cedric_Diggory, grinning. Harry_Potter looked down at his own wand. he could see finger marks all over it. he gathered a fistful of robe from his knee and tried to rub it clean surreptitiously. several gold sparks shot out of the end of it. Fleur_Delacour delacour gave him a very patronising look, and he desisted. mr ollIvan_Volkovder sent a stream of silver smoke rings across the room from the tip of Cedric_Diggory’s wand, pronounced himself satisfied, and then said, ‘mr krum, if you please.’ Viktor_Krum krum got up and slouched, round-shouldered and duck-footed, towards mr ollIvan_Volkovder. he thrust his wand out and stood scowling, with his hands in the pockets of his robes. ‘hmm,’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, ‘this is a gregorovitch creation, unless i’m much mistaken? a fine wand-maker, though the styling is never quite what i … however …’ he lifted the wand and examined it minutely, turning it over and over before his eyes. ‘yes … hornbeam and dragon heartstring?’ he shot at krum, who nodded. ‘rather thicker than one usually sees … quite rigid … ten and a quarter inches … avis!’ the hornbeam wand let off a blast like a gun, and a number of small, twittering birds flew out of the end, and through the open window into the watery sunlight. ‘good,’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, handing krum back his wand. ‘which leaves … mr potter.’ Harry_Potter got to his feet and walked past krum to mr ollIvan_Volkovder. he handed over his wand. ‘aaaah, yes,’ said mr ollIvan_Volkovder, his pale eyes suddenly gleaming. ‘yes, yes, yes. how well i remember.’ Harry_Potter could remember, too. he could remember it as though it had happened yesterday … four summers ago, on his eleventh birthday, he had entered mr ollIvan_Volkovder’s shop with Rubeus_Hagrid to buy a wand. mr ollIvan_Volkovder had taken his measurements and then started handing him wands to try. Harry_Potter had waved what felt like every wand in the shop, until at last he had found the one that suited him – this one, which was made of holly, eleven inches long, and contained a single feather from the tail of a phoenix. mr ollIvan_Volkovder had been very surprised that Harry_Potter had been so compatible with this wand. ‘curious,’ he had said, ‘… curious’, and not until Harry_Potter asked what was curious had mr ollIvan_Volkovder explained that the phoenix feather in Harry_Potter’s wand had come from the same bird which had supplied the core of lord voldemort’s. Harry_Potter had never shared this piece of information with anybody. he was very fond of his wand, and as far as he was concerned its relation to voldemort’s wand was something it couldn’t help – rather as he couldn’t help being related to aunt Petunia_Dursley. however, he really Hope_Howelld that mr ollIvan_Volkovder wasn’t about to tell the room about it. he had a funny feeling Rita_Skeeter skeeter’s quick-quotes quill might just explode with excitement if he did. mr ollIvan_Volkovder spent much longer examining Harry_Potter’s wand than anyone else’s. eventually, however, he made a fountain of wine shoot out of it, and handed it back to Harry_Potter, announcing that it was still in perfect condition. ‘thank you all,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, Stanley_Shunpikeding up at the judges’ table. ‘you may go back to your lessons now – or perhaps it would be quicker just to go down to dinner, as they are about to end –’ feeling that at last something had gone right today, Harry_Potter got up to leave, but the man with the black camera jumped up and cleared his throat. ‘photos, Albus_Dumbledore, photos!’ cried bagman excitedly. ‘all the judges and champions. what do you think, Rita_Skeeter?’ ‘er – yes, let’s do those first,’ said Rita_Skeeter skeeter, whose eyes were upon Harry_Potter again. ‘and then perhaps some individual shots.’ the photographs took a long time. madame maxime cast everyone else into shadow wherever she stood, and the photographer couldn’t Stanley_Shunpiked far enough back to get her into the frame; eventually she had to sit while everyone else stood around her. karkaroff kept twirling his goatee around his finger to give it an extra curl; krum, who Harry_Potter would have thought would have been used to this sort of thing, skulked, half-hidden, at the back of the group. the photographer seemed keenest to get Fleur_Delacour at the front, but Rita_Skeeter skeeter kept hurrying forward and dragging Harry_Potter into greater prominence. then she insisted on separate shots of all the champions. at last, they were free to go. Harry_Potter went down to dinner. Hermione_Granger wasn’t there – he supposed she was still in the hospital wing having her teeth fixed. he ate alone at the end of the table, then returned to gryffindor tower, thinking of all the extra work on summoning charms that he had to do. up in the dormitory, he came across ron. ‘you’ve had an owl,’ saidRonald_Weasleybrusquely, the moment he walked in. he was pointing at Harry_Potter’s pillow. the school barn owl was waiting for him there. ‘oh – right,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘and we’ve got to do our detentions tomorrow night, snape’s Mundungus_Fletchereon,’ said ron. he then walked straight out of the room, not looking at Harry_Potter. for a moment, Harry_Potter considered going after him – he wasn’t sure whether he wanted to talk to him or hit him, both seemed quite appealing – but the lure of Sirius_Black’ answer was too strong. Harry_Potter strode over to the barn owl, took the letter off its leg, and unrolled it. Harry_Potter – i can’t say everything i would like to in a letter, it’s too risky in case the owl is intercepted – we need to talk, face to face. can you ensure that you are alone by the fire in gryffindor tower at one o’clock in the morning on the 22nd november? i know better than anyone that you can look after yourself, and while you’re around Albus_Dumbledore and moody i don’t think anyone will be able to hurt you. however, someone seems to be having a good try. entering you in that tournament would have been very risky, especially right under Albus_Dumbledore’s nose.  be on the watch, Harry_Potter. i still want to hear about anything unusual. let me know about the 22nd november as quickly as you can. Sirius_Black  