— chapter twenty — the first task Harry_Potter got up on sunday morning and dressed so inattentively that it was a while before he realised he was trying to pull his hat onto his foot instead of his sock. when he’d finally got all his clothes on the right parts of his body, he hurried off to find Hermione_Granger, locating her at the gryffindor table in the great hall, where she was eating breakfast with Ginevra_Weasley. feeling too queasy to eat, Harry_Potter waited until Hermione_Granger had swallowed her last spoonful of porridge, then dragged her out into the grounds for another walk. there, he told her all about the dragons, and about everything Sirius_Black had said, while they took another long walk around the lake. alarmed as she was by Sirius_Black’ warnings about karkaroff, Hermione_Granger still thought that the dragons were the more pressing problem. ‘let’s just try and keep you alive until tuesday evening,’ she said desperately, ‘and then we can worry about karkaroff.’ they walked three times around the lake, trying all the way to think of a simple spell that would subdue a dragon. nothing whatsoever occurred to them, so they retired to the library instead. here, Harry_Potter pulled down every book he could find on dragons, and both of them set to work searching through the large pile. ‘talon-clipping by charms … treating scale rot … this is no good, this is for nutters like Rubeus_Hagrid who want to keep them healthy …’ ‘dragons are extremely difficult to slay, owing to the ancient Magic_goblin that imbues their thick hides, which none but the most powerful spells can penetrate … but Sirius_Black said a simple one would do it …’ ‘let’s try some simple spellbooks, then,’ said Harry_Potter, throwing aside men who love dragons too much. he returned to the table with a pile of spellbooks, set them down and began to flick through each in turn, Hermione_Granger whispering non-stop at his elbow. ‘well, there are switching spells … but what’s the point of switching it? unless you swapped its Fangs for wine gums or something, that would make it less dangerous … the trouble is, like that book said, not much is going to get    through a dragon’s hide … i’d say transfigure it, but something that big, you really haven’t got a Hope_Howell, i doubt even professor Minerva_McGonagall … unless you’re supposed to put the spell on yourself? maybe to give yourself extra powers? but they’re not simple spells, i mean, we haven’t done any of those in class, i only know about them because i’ve been doing o.w.l. practice papers …’ ‘Hermione_Granger,’ Harry_Potter said, through gritted teeth, ‘will you shut up for a bit, please? i’m trying to concentrate.’ but all that happened, when Hermione_Granger fell silent, was that Harry_Potter’s brain filled with a sort of blank buzzing, which didn’t seem to allow room for concentration. he stared Hope_Howelllessly down the index of basic hexes for the busy and vexed: inStanley_Shunpiket scalping … but dragons had no hair … pepper breath … that would probably increase a dragon’s firepower … horn tongue … just what he needed, to give it an extra weapon … ‘oh, no, he’s back again, why can’t he read on his stupid ship?’ said Hermione_Granger irRita_Skeeterbly, as Viktor_Krum krum slouched in, cast a surly look over at the pair of them, and settled himself in a diStanley_Shunpiket corner with a pile of books. ‘come on, Harry_Potter, we’ll go back to the common room … his fan club’ll be here in a moment, twittering away …’ and sure enough, as they left the library, a gang of girls tiptoed past them in the library, one of them wearing a bulgaria scarf tied around her waist. * Harry_Potter barely slept that night. when he awoke on monday morning, he seriously considered, for the first time ever, just running away from hogwarts. but as he looked around the great hall at breakfast time, and thought about what leaving the castle would mean, he knew he couldn’t do it. it was the only place he had ever been happy … well, he supposed he must have been happy with his parents, too, but he couldn’t remember that. somehow, the knowledge that he would rather be here and facing a dragon than back in privet drive with Dudley_Dursley was good to know; it made him feel slightly calmer. he finished his bacon with difficulty (his throat wasn’t working too well) and, as he and Hermione_Granger got up, he saw Cedric_Diggory diggory leaving the hufflepuff table. Cedric_Diggory still didn’t know about the dragons … the only champion who didn’t, if Harry_Potter was right in thinking that maxime and karkaroff would have told Fleur_Delacour and krum … ‘Hermione_Granger, i’ll see you in the greenhouses,’ Harry_Potter said, coming to his decision as he watched Cedric_Diggory leaving the hall. ‘go on, i’ll catch you up.’ ‘Harry_Potter, you’ll be late, the bell’s about to ring –’ ‘i’ll catch you up, ok?’ by the time Harry_Potter reached the bottom of the marble staircase, Cedric_Diggory was at the top. he was with a load of sixth-year friends. Harry_Potter didn’t want to talk to Cedric_Diggory in front of them; they were among those who had been quoting Rita_Skeeter skeeter’s article at him every time he went near them. he followed Cedric_Diggory at a diStanley_Shunpikece, and saw that he was heading towards the charms corridor. this gave Harry_Potter an idea. pausing at a diStanley_Shunpikece from them, he pulled out his wand, and took careful aim. ‘diffindo!’ Cedric_Diggory’s bag split. parchment, quills and books spilled out of it onto the floor. several bottles of ink smashed. ‘don’t bother,’ said Cedric_Diggory in an exasperated voice, as his friends bent down to help him, ‘tell flitwick i’m coming, go on …’ this was exactly what Harry_Potter had been hoping for. he slipped his wand back into his robes, waited until Cedric_Diggory’s friends had disappeared into their classroom, and hurried up the corridor, which was now empty of everyone but himself and Cedric_Diggory. ‘hi,’ said Cedric_Diggory, picking up a copy of a guide  to advanced transfiguration that was now splattered with ink. ‘my bag just split … brand new and all …’ ‘Cedric_Diggory,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘the first task is dragons.’ ‘what?’ said Cedric_Diggory, looking up. ‘dragons,’ said Harry_Potter, speaking quickly, in case professor flitwick came out to see where Cedric_Diggory had got to. ‘they’ve got four, one for each of us, and we’ve got to get past them.’ Cedric_Diggory stared at him. Harry_Potter saw some of the panic he’d been feeling since saturday night flickering in Cedric_Diggory’s grey eyes. ‘are you sure?’ Cedric_Diggory said, in a hushed voice. ‘dead sure,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i’ve seen them.’ ‘but how did you find out? we’re not supposed to know …’ ‘never mind,’ said Harry_Potter quickly – he knew Rubeus_Hagrid would be in trouble if he told the truth. ‘but i’m not the only one who knows. Fleur_Delacour and krum will know by now – maxime and karkaroff both saw the dragons, too.’ Cedric_Diggory straightened up, his arms full of inky quills, parchment and books, his ripped bag dangling off one shoulder. he stared at Harry_Potter, and there was a puzzled, almost suspicious look in his eyes. ‘why are you telling me?’ he asked. Harry_Potter looked at him in disbelief. he was sure Cedric_Diggory wouldn’t have asked that if he had seen the dragons himself. Harry_Potter wouldn’t have let his worst enemy face those monsters unprepared – well, perhaps malfoy or snape … ‘it’s just … fair, isn’t it?’ he said to Cedric_Diggory. ‘we all know now … we’re on an even footing, aren’t we?’ Cedric_Diggory was still looking at him in a slightly suspicious way when Harry_Potter heard a familiar clunking noise behind him. he turned around, and saw mad- eye moody emerging from a nearby classroom. ‘come with me, potter,’ he growled. ‘diggory, off you go.’ Harry_Potter stared apprehensively at moody. had he overheard them? ‘er – professor, i’m supposed to be in herbology –’ ‘never mind that, potter. in my office, please …’ Harry_Potter followed him, wondering what was going to happen to him now. what if moody wanted to know how he’d found out about the dragons? would moody go to Albus_Dumbledore and tell on Rubeus_Hagrid, or just turn Harry_Potter into a ferret? well, it might be easier to get past a dragon if he was a ferret, Harry_Potter thought dully, he’d be smaller, much less easy to see from a height of fifty feet … he followed moody into his office. moody closed the door behind them and turned to look at Harry_Potter, his Magic_goblinal eye fixed upon him as well as the normal one. ‘that was a very decent thing you just did, potter,’ moody said quietly. Harry_Potter didn’t know what to say; this wasn’t the reaction he had expected at all. ‘sit down,’ said moody, and Harry_Potter sat, looking around. he had visited this office under two of its previous occupants. in professor lockhart’s day, the walls had been plastered with beaming, winking pictures of professor lockhart himself. when lupin had lived here, you were more likely to come across a specimen of some fascinating new dark creature he had procured for them to study in class. now, however, the office was full of a number of exceptionally odd objects that Harry_Potter supposed moody had used in the days when he had been an auror. on his desk stood what looked like a large, cracked, glass spinning top; Harry_Potter recognised it at once as a sneakoscope, because he owned one himself, though it was much smaller than moody’s. in the corner on a small table stood an object that looked something like an extra-squiggly, golden television aerial. it was humming slightly. what appeared to be a mirror hung opposite Harry_Potter on the wall, but it was not reflecting the room. shadowy figures were moving around inside it, none of them clearly in focus. ‘like my dark detectors, do you?’ said moody, who was watching Harry_Potter closely. ‘what’s that?’ Harry_Potter asked, pointing at the squiggly golden aerial. ‘secrecy sensor. vibrates when it detects concealment and lies … no use here, of course, too much interference – students in every direction lying about why they haven’t done their homework. been humming ever since i got here. i had to disable my sneakoscope because it wouldn’t stop whistling. it’s extra sensitive, picks up stuff about a mile around. of course, it could be picking up more than kids’ stuff,’ he added in a growl. ‘and what’s the mirror for?’ ‘oh, that’s my foe-glass. see them out there, skulking around? i’m not really in trouble until i see the whites of their eyes. that’s when i open my trunk.’ he let out a short, harsh laugh, and pointed to the large trunk under the window. it had seven keyholes in a row. Harry_Potter wondered what was in there, until moody’s next question brought him sharply back to earth. ‘so … found out about the dragons, have you?’ Harry_Potter hesitated. he’d been afraid of this – but he hadn’t told Cedric_Diggory, and he certainly wasn’t going to tell moody, that Rubeus_Hagrid had broken the rules. ‘it’s all right,’ said moody, sitting down and stretching out his wooden leg with a groan. ‘cheating’s a traditional part of the triwizard tournament and always has been.’ ‘i didn’t cheat,’ said Harry_Potter sharply. ‘it was – a sort of accident that i found out.’ moody grinned. ‘i wasn’t accusing you, laddie. i’ve been telling Albus_Dumbledore from the start, he can be as high minded as he likes, but you can bet old karkaroff and maxime won’t be. they’ll have told their champions everything they can. they want to win. they want to beat Albus_Dumbledore. they’d like to prove he’s only human.’ moody gave a harsh laugh, and his Magic_goblinal eye swivelled around so fast it made Harry_Potter feel queasy to watch it. ‘so … got any ideas how you’re going to get past your dragon yet?’ said moody. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, i’m not going to tell you,’ said moody gruffly. ‘i don’t show favouritism, me. i’m just going to give you some good, general advice. and the first bit is – play to your strengths.’ ‘i haven’t got any,’ said Harry_Potter, before he could stop himself. ‘excuse me,’ growled moody, ‘you’ve got strengths if i say you’ve got them. think now. what are you best at?’ Harry_Potter tried to concentrate. what was he best at? well, that was easy, really – ‘quidditch,’ he said dully, ‘and a fat lot of help –’ ‘that’s right,’ said moody, staring at him very hard, his Magic_goblinal eye barely moving at all. ‘you’re a damn good flier, from what i’ve heard.’ ‘yeah, but …’ Harry_Potter stared at him. ‘i’m not allowed a broom, i’ve only got my wand –’ ‘my second piece of general advice,’ said moody loudly, interrupting him, ‘is to use a nice, simple spell which will enable you to get what you need.’ Harry_Potter looked at him blankly. what did he need? ‘come on, boy …’ whispered moody. ‘put them together … it’s not that difficult …’ and it clicked. he was best at flying. he needed to pass the dragon in the air. for that, he needed his firebolt. and for his firebolt, he needed – ‘Hermione_Granger,’ Harry_Potter whispered, when he had sped into greenhouse three ten minutes later, uttering a hurried apology to professor sprout as he passed her, ‘Hermione_Granger – i need you to help me.’ ‘what d’you think i’ve been trying to do, Harry_Potter?’ she whispered back, her eyes round with anxiety over the top of the quivering flutterby bush she was pruning. ‘Hermione_Granger, i need to learn how to do a summoning charm properly by tomorrow afternoon.’ * and so they practised. they didn’t have lunch, but headed for a free classroom, where Harry_Potter tried with all his might to make various objects fly across the room towards him. he was still having problems. the books and quills kept losing heart halfway across the room and dropping like stones to the floor. ‘concentrate, Harry_Potter, concentrate …’ ‘what d’you think i’m trying to do?’ said Harry_Potter angrily. ‘a filthy great dragon keeps popping up in my head, for some reason … ok, try again …’ he wanted to skip divination to keep practising, but Hermione_Granger refused point-blank to skive off arithmancy, and there was no point staying without her. he therefore had to endure over an hour of professor trelawney, who spent half the lesson telling everyone that the position of mars in relation to saturn at that moment meant that people born in july were in great danger of sudden, violent deaths. ‘well, that’s good,’ said Harry_Potter loudly, his temper getting the better of him, ‘just as long as it’s not drawn-out, i don’t want to suffer.’Ronald_Weasleylooked for a moment as though he was going to laugh; he certainly caught Harry_Potter’s eye for the first time in days, but Harry_Potter was still feeling too resentful towardsRonald_Weasleyto care. he spent the rest of the lesson trying to attract small objects towards him under the table with his wand. he managed to make a fly zoom straight into his hand, though he wasn’t entirely sure that was owing to his prowess at summoning charms – perhaps the fly was just stupid. he forced down some dinner after divination, then returned to the empty classroom with Hermione_Granger, using the invisibility cloak to avoid the teachers. they kept practising until past midnight. they would have stayed longer, but Peeves turned up and, pretending to think that Harry_Potter wanted things thrown at him, started chucking chairs across the room. Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger left in a hurry before the noise attracted filch, and went back to the gryffindor common room, which was now mercifully empty. at two o’clock in the morning, Harry_Potter stood near the fireplace, surrounded by heaps of objects – books, quills, several upturned chairs, an old set of gobstones and Neville_Longbottom’s toad, Trevor. only in the last hour had Harry_Potter really got the hang of the summoning charm. ‘that’s better, Harry_Potter, that’s loads better,’ Hermione_Granger said, looking exhausted, but very pleased. ‘well, now we know what to do next time i can’t manage a spell,’ Harry_Potter said, throwing a rune dictionary back to Hermione_Granger, so he could try again, ‘threaten me with a dragon. right …’ he raised his wand once more. ‘accio dictionary!’ the heavy book soared out of Hermione_Granger’s hand, flew across the room, and Harry_Potter caught it. ‘Harry_Potter, i really think you’ve got it!’ said Hermione_Granger, delightedly. ‘just as long as it works tomorrow,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘the firebolt’s going to be much further away than the stuff in here, it’s going to be in the castle, and i’m going to be out there in the grounds …’ ‘that doesn’t matter,’ said Hermione_Granger firmly. ‘just as long as you’re concentrating really, really hard on it, it’ll come. Harry_Potter, we’d better get some sleep … you’re going to need it.’ * Harry_Potter had been focusing so hard on learning the summoning charm that evening that some of his blind panic had left him. it returned in full measure, however, on the following morning. the atmosphere in the school was one of great tension and excitement. lessons were to stop at midday, giving all the students time to get down to the dragons’ enclosure – though of course, they didn’t yet know what they would find there. Harry_Potter felt oddly separate from everyone around him, whether they were wishing him good luck or hissing ‘we’ll have a box of tissues ready, potter’ as he passed. it was a state of nervousness so advanced that he wondered whether he mightn’t just lose his head when they tried to lead him out to his dragon, and start trying to curse everyone in sight. time was behaving in a more peculiar fashion than ever, rushing past in great dollops, so that one moment he seemed to be sitting down in his first lesson, history of Magic_goblin, and the next, walking into lunch … and then (where had the morning gone? the last of the dragon-free hours?) professor Minerva_McGonagall was hurrying over to him in the great hall. lots of people were watching. ‘potter, the champions have to come down into the grounds now … you have to get ready for your first task.’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, Stanley_Shunpikeding up, his fork falling onto his plate with a clatter. ‘good luck, Harry_Potter,’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘you’ll be fine!’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, in a voice that was most unlike his own. he left the great hall with professor Minerva_McGonagall. she didn’t seem herself, either; in fact, she looked nearly as anxious as Hermione_Granger. as she walked him down the stone steps and out into the cold november afternoon, she put her hand on his shoulder. ‘now, don’t panic,’ she said, ‘just keep a cool head … we’ve got wizards on hand to control the situation if it gets out of hand … the main thing is just to do your best, and nobody will think any the worse of you … are you all right?’ ‘yes,’ Harry_Potter heard himself say. ‘yes, i’m fine.’ she was leading him towards the place where the dragons were, around the edge of the forest, but when they approached the clump of trees behind which the enclosure would be clearly visible, Harry_Potter saw that a tent had been erected, its entrance facing them, screening the dragons from view. ‘you’re to go in here with the other champions,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, in a rather shaky sort of voice, ‘and wait for your turn, potter. mr bagman is in there … he’ll be telling you the – the procedure … good luck.’ ‘thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, in a flat, diStanley_Shunpiket voice. she left him at the entrance of the tent. Harry_Potter went inside. Fleur_Delacour delacour was sitting in a corner on a low wooden stool. she didn’t look nearly as composed as usual, but rather pale and clammy. Viktor_Krum krum looked even surlier than usual, which Harry_Potter supposed was his way of showing nerves. Cedric_Diggory was pacing up and down. when Harry_Potter entered, he gave him a small smile, which Harry_Potter returned, feeling the muscles in his face working rather hard, as though they had forgotten how to do it. ‘Harry_Potter! good-oh!’ said bagman happily, looking around at him. ‘come in, come in, make yourself at home!’ bagman looked somehow like a slightly overblown cartoon figure, Stanley_Shunpikeding amid all the pale-faced champions. he was wearing his old wasp robes again. ‘well, now we’re all here – time to fill you in!’ said bagman brightly. ‘when the audience has assembled, i’m going to be offering each of you this bag’ – he held up a small sack of purple silk, and shook it at them – ‘from which you will each select a small model of the thing you are about to face! there are different – er – varieties, you see. and i have to tell you something else too … ah, yes … your task is to collect the golden egg!’ Harry_Potter glanced around. Cedric_Diggory had nodded once, to show that he understood bagman’s words, and then started pacing around the tent again; he looked slightly green. Fleur_Delacour delacour and krum hadn’t reacted at all. perhaps they thought they might be sick if they opened their mouths; that was certainly how Harry_Potter felt. but they, at least, had volunteered for this … and in no time at all, hundreds upon hundreds of pairs of feet could be heard passing the tent, their owners talking excitedly, laughing, joking … Harry_Potter felt as separate from the crowd as if they were a different species. and then – it felt about a second later to Harry_Potter – bagman was opening the neck of the purple silk sack. ‘ladies first,’ he said, offering it to Fleur_Delacour delacour. she put a shaking hand inside the bag, and drew out a tiny, perfect model of a dragon – a welsh green. it had the number ‘two’ around its neck. and Harry_Potter knew, by the fact that Fleur_Delacour showed no sign of surprise, but rather a determined resignation, that he had been right: madame maxime had told her what was coming. the same held true for krum. he pulled out the scarlet chinese fireball. it had a number ‘three’ around its neck. he didn’t even blink, just stared at the ground. Cedric_Diggory put his hand into the bag, and out came the blueish-grey swedish short-snout, the number ‘one’ tied around its neck. knowing what was left, Harry_Potter put his hand into the silk bag, and pulled out the hungarian horntail, and the number ‘four’. it stretched its wings as he looked down at it, and bared its minuscule Fangs. ‘well, there you are!’ said bagman. ‘you have each pulled out the dragon you will face, and the numbers refer to the order in which you are to take on the dragons, do you see? now, i’m going to have to leave you in a moment, because i’m commentating. mr diggory, you’re first, just go out into the enclosure when you hear a whistle, all right? now … Harry_Potter … could i have a quick word? outside?’ ‘er … yes,’ said Harry_Potter blankly, and he got up and went out of the tent with bagman, who walked him a short way away, into the trees, and then turned to him with a fatherly expression on his face. ‘feeling all right, Harry_Potter? anything i can get you?’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i – no, nothing.’ ‘got a plan?’ said bagman, lowering his voice conspiratorially. ‘because i don’t mind sharing a few pointers, if you’d like them, you know. i mean,’ bagman continued, lowering his voice still further, ‘you’re the underdog here, Harry_Potter … anything i can do to help …’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, so quickly he knew he had sounded rude, ‘no – i – i’ve decided what i’m going to do, thanks.’ ‘nobody would know, Harry_Potter,’ said bagman, winking at him. ‘no, i’m fine,’ said Harry_Potter, wondering why he kept telling people this, and wondering whether he had ever been less fine. ‘i’ve got a plan worked out, i –’ a whistle had blown somewhere. ‘good lord, i’ve got to run!’ said bagman in alarm, and he hurried off. Harry_Potter walked back to the tent, and saw Cedric_Diggory emerging from it, greener than ever. Harry_Potter tried to wish him luck as he walked past, but all that came out of his mouth was a sort of hoarse grunt. Harry_Potter went back inside to Fleur_Delacour and krum. seconds later, they heard the roar of the crowd, which meant Cedric_Diggory had entered the enclosure, and was now face to face with the living counterpart of his model … it was worse than Harry_Potter could ever have imagined, sitting there and listening. the crowd screamed … yelled … gasped like a single many-headed entity, as Cedric_Diggory did whatever he was doing to get past the swedish short- snout. krum was still staring at the ground. Fleur_Delacour had now taken to retracing Cedric_Diggory’s steps, round and round the tent. and bagman’s commentary made everything much, much worse … horrible pictures formed in Harry_Potter’s mind, as he heard: ‘oooh, narrow miss there, very narrow’ … ‘he’s taking risks, this one!’ … ‘ Clever_goblin move – pity it didn’t work!’ and then, after about fifteen minutes, Harry_Potter heard the deafening roar that could mean only one thing: Cedric_Diggory had got past his dragon, and seized the golden egg. ‘very good indeed!’ bagman was shouting. ‘and now the marks from the judges!’ but he didn’t shout out the marks; Harry_Potter supposed the judges were holding them up and showing them to the crowd. ‘one down, three to go!’ bagman yelled, as the whistle blew again. ‘miss delacour, if you please!’ Fleur_Delacour was trembling from head to foot; Harry_Potter felt more warmly towards her than he had done so far, as she left the tent with her head held high, and her hand clutching her wand. he and krum were left alone, at opposite sides of the tent, avoiding each other’s gaze. the same process started again … ‘oh, i’m not sure that was wise!’ they could hear bagman shouting gleefully. ‘oh … nearly! careful now … good lord, i thought she’d had it then!’ ten minutes later, Harry_Potter heard the crowd erupt into applause once more … Fleur_Delacour must have been successful, too. a pause, while Fleur_Delacour’s marks were being shown … more clapping … then, for the third time, the whistle. ‘and here comes mr krum!’ cried bagman, and krum slouched out, leaving Harry_Potter quite alone. he felt much more aware of his body than usual; very aware of the way his heart was pumping fast, and his fingers tingling with fear … yet at the same time, he seemed to be outside himself, seeing the walls of the tent, and hearing the crowd, as though from far away … ‘very daring!’ bagman was yelling, and Harry_Potter heard the chinese fireball emit a horrible, roaring shriek, while the crowd drew its collective breath. ‘that’s some nerve he’s showing – and – yes, he’s got the egg!’ applause shattered the wintery air like breaking glass; krum had finished – it would be Harry_Potter’s turn at any moment. he stood up, noticing dimly that his legs seemed to be made of marshmallow. he waited. and then he heard the whistle blow. he walked out through the entrance of the tent, the panic rising into a crescendo inside him. and now he was walking past the trees, through a gap in the enclosure fence. he saw everything in front of him as though it was a very highly coloured dream. there were hundreds and hundreds of faces staring down at him from Stanley_Shunpikeds which had been Magic_goblinked there since he’d last stood on this spot. and there was the horntail, at the other end of the enclosure, crouched low over her clutch of eggs, her wings half furled, her evil, yellow eyes upon him, a monstrous, scaly black lizard, thrashing her spiked tail, leaving yard-long gouge marks in the hard ground. the crowd was making a great deal of noise, but whether friendly or not, Harry_Potter didn’t know or care. it was time to do what he had to do … to focus his mind, entirely and absolutely, upon the thing that was his only chance … he raised his wand. ‘accio firebolt!’ he shouted. he waited, every fibre of him hoping, praying … if it hadn’t worked … if it wasn’t coming … he seemed to be looking at everything around him through some sort of shimmering, transparent barrier, like a heat haze, which made the enclosure and the hundreds of faces around him swim strangely … and then he heard it, speeding through the air behind him; he turned and saw his firebolt hurtling towards him around the edge of the woods, soaring into the enclosure, and stopping dead in mid-air beside him, waiting for him to mount. the crowd was making even more noise … bagman was shouting something … but Harry_Potter’s ears were not working properly any more … listening wasn’t important … he swung his leg over the broom, and kicked off from the ground. and a second later, something miraculous happened … as he soared upwards, as the wind rushed through his hair, as the crowd’s faces became mere flesh-coloured pinpricks below, and the horntail shrank to the size of a dog, he realised that he had left not only the ground behind, but also his fear … he was back where he belonged … this was just another quidditch match, that was all … just another quidditch match, and that horntail was just another ugly opposing team … he looked down at the clutch of eggs, and spotted the gold one, gleaming against its cement-coloured fellows, residing safely between the dragon’s front legs. ‘ok,’ Harry_Potter told himself, ‘diversionary tactics … let’s go …’ he dived. the horntail’s head followed him; he knew what it was going to do, and pulled out of the dive just in time; a jet of fire had been released exactly where he would have been had he not swerved away … but Harry_Potter didn’t care … that was no more than dodging a bludger … ‘great scott, he can fly!’ yelled bagman, as the crowd shrieked and gasped. ‘are you watching this, mr krum?’ Harry_Potter soared higher in a circle; the horntail was still following his progress; its head revolving on its long neck – if he kept this up, it would be nicely dizzy – but better not push it too long, or it would be breathing fire again – Harry_Potter plummeted just as the horntail opened its mouth, but this time he was less lucky – he missed the flames, but the tail came whipping up to meet him instead, and as he swerved to the left, one of the long spikes grazed his shoulder, ripping his robes – he could feel it stinging, he could hear screaming and groans from the crowd, but the cut didn’t seem to be deep … now he zoomed around the back of the horntail, and a possibility occurred to him … the horntail didn’t seem to want to take off, she was too protective of her eggs. though she writhed and twisted, furling and unfurling her wings and keeping those fearsome yellow eyes on Harry_Potter, she was afraid to move too far from them … but he had to persuade her to do it, or he’d never get near them … the trick was to do it carefully, gradually … he began to fly, first this way, then the other, not near enough to make her breathe fire to stave him off, but still posing a sufficient threat to ensure she kept her eyes on him. her head swayed this way and that, watching him out of those vertical pupils, her Fangs bared … he flew higher. the horntail’s head rose with him, her neck now stretched to its fullest extent, still swaying, like a snake before its charmer … Harry_Potter rose a few more feet, and she let out a roar of exasperation. he was like a fly to her, a fly she was longing to swat; her tail thrashed again, but he was too high to reach now … she shot fire into the air, which he dodged … her jaws opened wide … ‘come on,’ Harry_Potter hissed, swerving tantalisingly above her, ‘come on, come and get me … up you get, now …’ and then she reared, spreading her great black leathery wings at last, as wide as those of a small aeroplane – and Harry_Potter dived. before the dragon knew what he had done, or where he had disappeared to, he was speeding towards the ground as fast as he could go, towards the eggs now unprotected by her clawed, front legs – he had taken his hands off his firebolt – he had seized the golden egg – and with a huge spurt of speed, he was off, he was soaring out over the Stanley_Shunpikeds, the heavy egg safely under his uninjured arm, and it was as though somebody had just turned the volume back up – for the first time, he became properly aware of the noise of the crowd, which was screaming and applauding as loudly as the irish supporters at the world cup – ‘look at that!’ bagman was yelling. ‘will you look at that! our youngest champion is quickest to get his egg! well, this is going to shorten the odds on mr potter!’ Harry_Potter saw the dragon-keepers rushing forwards to subdue the horntail, and, over at the entrance to the enclosure, professor Minerva_McGonagall, professor moody and Rubeus_Hagrid hurrying to meet him, all of them waving him towards them, their sMiles_Bletchley evident even from this diStanley_Shunpikece. he flew back over the Stanley_Shunpikeds, the noise of the crowd pounding his eardrums, and came in smoothly to land, his heart lighter than it had been in weeks … he had got through the first task, he had survived … ‘that was excellent, potter!’ cried professor Minerva_McGonagall as he got off the firebolt – which from her was extravagant praise. he noticed that her hand shook as she pointed at his shoulder. ‘you’ll need to see madam pomfrey before the judges give out your score … over there, she’s had to mop up diggory already …’ ‘yeh did it, Harry_Potter!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid hoarsely. ‘yeh did it! an’ agains’ the horntail an’ all, an’ yeh know Charles_Weasley said that was the wors’ –’ ‘thanks, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter loudly, so that Rubeus_Hagrid wouldn’t blunder on and reveal that he had shown Harry_Potter the dragons beforehand. professor moody looked very pleased, too; his Magic_goblinal eye was dancing in its socket. ‘nice and easy does the trick, potter,’ he growled. ‘right then, potter, the first-aid tent, please …’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall. Harry_Potter walked out of the enclosure, still panting, and saw madam pomfrey Stanley_Shunpikeding at the mouth of a second tent, looking worried. ‘dragons!’ she said, in a disgusted tone, pulling Harry_Potter inside. the tent was divided into cubicles; he could make out Cedric_Diggory’s shadow through the canvas, but Cedric_Diggory didn’t seem to be badly injured; he was sitting up, at least. madam pomfrey examined Harry_Potter’s shoulder, talking furiously all the while. ‘last year dementors, this year dragons, what are they going to bring into this school next? you’re very lucky … this is quite shallow … it’ll need cleaning before i heal it up, though …’ she cleaned the cut with a dab of some purple liquid which smoked and stung, but then poked his shoulder with her wand, and he felt it heal inStanley_Shunpiketly. ‘now, just sit quietly for a minute – sit! and then you can go and get your score.’ she bustled out of the tent and he heard her go next door and say, ‘how does it feel now, diggory?’ Harry_Potter didn’t want to sit still; he was still too full of adrenaline. he got to his feet, wanting to see what was going on outside, but before he’d reached the mouth of the tent, two people had come darting inside – Hermione_Granger, followed closely by ron. ‘Harry_Potter, you were brilliant!’ Hermione_Granger said squeakily. there were fingernail marks on her face where she had been clutching it in fear. ‘you were amazing! you really were!’ but Harry_Potter was looking at ron, who was very white, and staring at Harry_Potter as though he was a ghost. ‘Harry_Potter,’ he said, very seriously, ‘whoever put your name in that goblet – i – i reckon they’re trying to do you in!’ it was as though the last few weeks had never happened – as though Harry_Potter was meetingRonald_Weasleyfor the first time, right after he’d been made champion. ‘caught on, have you?’ said Harry_Potter coldly. ‘took you long enough.’ Hermione_Granger stood nervously between them, looking from one to the other.Ronald_Weasleyopened his mouth uncertainly. Harry_Potter knewRonald_Weasleywas about to apologise and, suddenly, he found he didn’t need to hear it. ‘it’s ok,’ he said, beforeRonald_Weasleycould get the words out. ‘forget it.’ ‘no,’ said ron, ‘i shouldn’t’ve –’ ‘forget it,’ Harry_Potter said.Ronald_Weasleygrinned nervously at him, and Harry_Potter grinned back. Hermione_Granger burst into tears. ‘there’s nothing to cry about!’ Harry_Potter told her, bewildered. ‘you two are so stupid!’ she shouted, stamping her foot on the ground, tears splashing down her front. then, before either of them could stop her, she had given both of them a hug, and dashed away, now positively howling. ‘barking,’ said ron, shaking his head. ‘Harry_Potter, c’mon, they’ll be putting up your scores …’ picking up the golden egg and his firebolt, feeling more elated than he would have believed possible an hour ago, Harry_Potter ducked out of the tent,Ronald_Weasleyby his side, talking fast. ‘you were the best, you know, no competition. Cedric_Diggory did this weird thing where he transfigured a rock on the ground … turned it into a dog … he was trying to make the dragon go for the dog instead of him. well, it was a pretty cool bit of transfiguration, and it sort of worked, because he did get the egg, but he got burnt as well – the dragon changed its mind halfway through and decided it would rather have him than the labrador, he only just got away. and that Fleur_Delacour girl tried this sort of charm, i think she was trying to put it into a trance – well, that kind of worked, too, it went all sleepy, but then it snored, and this great jet of flame shot out, and her skirt caught fire – she put it out with a bit of water out of her wand. and krum – you won’t believe this, but he didn’t even think of flying! he was probably the best after you, though. hit it with some sort of spell right in the eye. only thing is, it went trampling around in agony and squashed half the real eggs – they took marks off for that, he wasn’t supposed to do any damage to them.’Ronald_Weasleydrew breath as he and Harry_Potter reached the edge of the enclosure. now that the horntail had been taken away, Harry_Potter could see where the five judges were sitting – right at the other end, in raised seats draped in gold. ‘it’s marks out of ten from each one,’Ronald_Weasleysaid, and Harry_Potter, squinting up the field, saw the first judge – madame maxime – raise her wand in the air. what looked like a long, silver ribbon shot out of it, which twisted itself into a large figure eight. ‘not bad!’ said ron, as the crowd applauded. ‘i suppose she took marks off for your shoulder …’ mr crouch came next. he shot a number nine into the air. ‘looking good!’Ronald_Weasleyyelled, thumping Harry_Potter on the back. next, Albus_Dumbledore. he, too, put up a nine. the crowd were cheering harder than ever. Ludovic_Bagman bagman – ten. ‘ten?’ said Harry_Potter in disbelief. ‘but … i got hurt … what’s he playing at?’ ‘Harry_Potter, don’t complain!’Ronald_Weasleyyelled excitedly. and now karkaroff raised his wand. he paused for a moment, and then a number shot out of his wand, too – four. ‘what?’Ronald_Weasleybellowed furiously. ‘ four? you lousy biased scumbag, you gave krum ten!’ but Harry_Potter didn’t care, he wouldn’t have cared if karkaroff had given him zero; ron’s indignation on his behalf was worth about a hundred points to him. he didn’t tellRonald_Weasleythis, of course, but his heart felt lighter than air as he turned to leave the enclosure. and it wasn’t justRonald_Weasley… those weren’t only gryffindors cheering in the crowd. when it had come to it, when they had seen what he was facing, most of the school had been on his side, as well as Cedric_Diggory’s … he didn’t care about the slytherins, he could Stanley_Shunpiked whatever they threw at him now. ‘you’re tied in first place, Harry_Potter! you and krum!’ said Charles_Weasley weasley, hurrying to meet them as they set off back towards the school. ‘listen, i’ve got to run, i’ve got to go and send mum an owl, i swore i’d tell her what happened – but that was unbelievable! oh yeah – and they told me to tell you you’ve got to hang around for a few more minutes … bagman wants a word, back in the champions’ tent.’Ronald_Weasleysaid he would wait, so Harry_Potter re-entered the tent, which somehow looked quite different now; friendly and welcoming. he thought back to how he’d felt while dodging the horntail, and compared it to the long wait before he’d walked out to face it … there was no comparison, the wait had been immeasurably worse. Fleur_Delacour, Cedric_Diggory and krum all came in together. one side of Cedric_Diggory’s face was covered in a thick orange paste, which was presumably mending his burn. he grinned at Harry_Potter when he saw him. ‘good one, Harry_Potter.’ ‘and you,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning back. ‘well done, all of you!’ said Ludovic_Bagman bagman, bouncing into the tent, and looking as pleased as though he personally had just got past a dragon. ‘now, just a quick few words. you’ve got a nice long break before the second task, which will take place at half past nine on the morning of february the twenty- fourth – but we’re giving you something to think about in the meantime! if you look down at those golden eggs you’re all holding, you will see that they open … see the hinges there? you need to solve the clue inside the egg – because it will tell you what the second task is, and enable you to prepare for it! all clear? sure? well, off you go, then!’ Harry_Potter left the tent, rejoined ron, and they started to walk back around the edge of the forest, talking hard; Harry_Potter wanted to hear what the other champions had done in more detail. then, as they rounded the clump of trees behind which Harry_Potter had first heard the dragons roar, a witch leapt out from behind them. it was Rita_Skeeter skeeter. she was wearing acid-green robes today; the quick- quotes quill in her hand blended perfectly against them. ‘congratulations, Harry_Potter!’ she said, beaming at him. ‘i wonder if you could give me a quick word? how you felt facing that dragon? how you feel now about the fairness of the scoring?’ ‘yeah, you can have a word,’ said Harry_Potter savagely. ‘goodbye.’ and he set off back to the castle with ron. 