— chapter twenty-eight — the madness of mr crouch Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger went up to the owlery after breakfast on sunday to send a letter to Percy_Weasley, asking, as Sirius_Black had suggested, whether he had seen mr crouch lately. they used Hedwig, because it had been so long since she’d had a job. when they had watched her fly out of sight through the owlery window, they proceeded down to the kitchen to give Dobby his new socks. the house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, bowing and curtseying and bustling around making tea again. Dobby was ecstatic about his present. ‘Harry_Potter potter is too good to Dobby!’ he squeaked, wiping large tears out of his enormous eyes. ‘you saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you really did,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no chance of more of those éclairs, is there?’ said ron, who was looking around at the beaming and bowing house-elves. ‘you’ve just had breakfast!’ said Hermione_Granger irRita_Skeeterbly, but a great silver platter of éclairs was already zooming towards them, supported by four elves. ‘we should get some stuff to send up to Sirius_Black,’ Harry_Potter muttered. ‘good idea,’ said ron. ‘givePigwidgeonsomething to do. you couldn’t give us a bit of extra food, could you?’ he said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed delightedly and hurried off to get some more. ‘Dobby, where’s Winky?’ said Hermione_Granger, who was looking around. ‘Winky is over there by the fire, miss,’ said Dobby quietly, his ears drooping slightly. ‘oh dear,’ said Hermione_Granger, as she spotted Winky. Harry_Potter looked over at the fireplace, too. Winky was sitting on the same stool as last time, but she had allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not immediately distinguishable from the smoke-blackened brick behind her. her clothes were ragged and unwashed. she was clutching a bottle of butterbeer and swaying slightly on her stool, staring into the fire. as they watched her, she gave an enormous hiccough. ‘Winky is getting through six bottles a day now,’ Dobby whispered to    Harry_Potter. ‘well, it’s not strong, that stuff,’ Harry_Potter said. but Dobby shook his head. ‘’tis strong for a house-elf, sir,’ he said. Winky hiccoughed again. the elves who had brought the éclairs gave her disapproving looks as they returned to work. ‘Winky is pining, Harry_Potter potter,’ Dobby whispered sadly. ‘Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks mr crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby says will persuade her that professor Albus_Dumbledore is her master now.’ ‘hey, Winky,’ said Harry_Potter, struck by a sudden inspiration, walking over and bending down to speak to her, ‘you don’t know what mr crouch might be up to, do you? because he’s stopped turning up to judge the triwizard tournament.’ Winky’s eyes flickered. her enormous pupils focused on Harry_Potter. she swayed slightly again and then said, ‘m-master is stopped – hic – coming?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘we haven’t seen him since the first task. the daily prophet’s saying he’s ill.’ Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry_Potter. ‘master – hic – ill?’ her bottom lip began to tremble. ‘but we’re not sure if that’s true,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly. ‘master is needing his – hic – Winky!’ whimpered the elf. ‘master cannot – hic – manage – hic – all by himself …’ ‘other people manage to do their own housework, you know, Winky,’ said Hermione_Granger severely. ‘Winky – hic – is not only – hic – doing housework for mr crouch!’ Winky squeaked indignantly, swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer down her already heavily stained blouse. ‘master is – hic – trusting Winky with – hic – the most important – hic – the most secret –’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. but Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more butterbeer down herself. ‘Winky keeps – hic – her master’s secrets,’ she said mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at Harry_Potter with her eyes crossed. ‘you is – hic – nosing, you is.’ ‘Winky must not talk like that to Harry_Potter potter!’ said Dobby angrily. ‘Harry_Potter potter is brave and noble and Harry_Potter potter is not nosy!’ ‘he is nosing – hic – into my master’s – hic – private and secret – hic – Winky is a good house-elf – hic – Winky keeps her silence – hic – people trying to – hic – pry and poke – hic –’ Winky’s eyelids drooped and suddenly, without warning, she slid off her stool onto the hearth, snoring loudly. the empty bottle of butterbeer rolled away across the stone-flagged floor. half-a-dozen house-elves came hurrying forward, looking disgusted. one of them picked up the bottle, the others covered Winky with a large checked tablecloth and tucked the ends in neatly, hiding her from view. ‘we is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!’ squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his head and looking very ashamed. ‘we is hoping you will not judge us all by Winky, sirs and miss!’ ‘she’s unhappy!’ said Hermione_Granger, exasperated. ‘why don’t you try and cheer her up instead of covering her up?’ ‘begging your pardon, miss,’ said the house-elf, bowing deeply again, ‘but house-elves has no right to be unhappy when there is work to be done and masters to be served.’ ‘oh, for heaven’s sake!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. ‘listen to me, all of you! you’ve got just as much right as wizards to be unhappy! you’ve got the right to wages and holidays and proper clothes, you don’t have to do everything you’re told – look at Dobby!’ ‘miss will please keep Dobby out of this,’ Dobby mumbled, looking scared. the cheery sMiles_Bletchley had vanished from the faces of the house-elves around the kitchen. they were suddenly looking at Hermione_Granger as though she was mad and dangerous. ‘we has your extra food!’ squeaked anWinkyat Harry_Potter’s elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes and some fruit into Harry_Potter’s arms. ‘goodbye!’ the house-elves crowded around Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, and began shunting them out of the kitchen, many little hands pushing in the smalls of their backs. ‘thank you for the socks, Harry_Potter potter!’ Dobby called miserably from the hearth, where he was Stanley_Shunpikeding next to the lumpy tablecloth that was Winky. ‘you couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, Hermione_Granger?’ saidRonald_Weasleyangrily, as the kitchen door slammed shut behind them. ‘they won’t want us visiting them now! we could’ve tried to get more stuff out of Winky about crouch!’ ‘oh, as if you care about that!’ scoffed Hermione_Granger. ‘you only like coming down here for the food!’ it was an irRita_Skeeterble sort of day after that. Harry_Potter got so tired ofRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger sniping at each other over their homework in the common room that he took Sirius_Black’ food up to the owlery that evening on his own. Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire ham up to the mountain by himself, so Harry_Potter enlisted the help of two school screech owls as well. when they had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd carrying the large package between them, Harry_Potter leaned on the window-sill, looking out at the grounds, at the dark, rustling treetops of the forbidden forest, and the rippling sails of the durmstrang ship. an eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from Rubeus_Hagrid’s chimney; it soared towards the castle, around the owlery and out of sight. looking down, Harry_Potter saw Rubeus_Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin. Harry_Potter wondered what he was doing; it looked as though he was making a new vegetable patch. as he watched, madame maxime emerged from the beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Rubeus_Hagrid. she appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation. Rubeus_Hagrid leant upon his spade, but did not seem keen to prolong their talk, because madame maxime returned to the carriage shortly afterwards. unwilling to go back to gryffindor tower and listen toRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger snarling at each other, Harry_Potter watched Rubeus_Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed him, and the owls around Harry_Potter began to awake, swooshing past him, into the night. * by breakfast next day,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger’s bad moods had burnt out, and to Harry_Potter’s relief, ron’s dark predictions that the house-elves would send sub- Stanley_Shunpikedard food up to the gryffindor table because Hermione_Granger had insulted them proved false; the bacon, eggs and kippers were quite as good as usual. when the post owls arrived, Hermione_Granger looked up eagerly; she seemed to be expecting something. ‘Percy_Weasley won’t’ve had time to answer yet,’ said ron. ‘we only sent Hedwig yesterday.’ ‘no, it’s not that,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i’ve taken out a new subscription to the daily prophet, i’m getting sick of finding everything out from the slytherins.’ ‘good thinking!’ said Harry_Potter, also looking up at the owls. ‘hey, Hermione_Granger, i think you’re in luck –’ a grey owl was soaring down towards Hermione_Granger. ‘it hasn’t got a newspaper, though,’ she said, looking disappointed. ‘it’s –’ but to her bewilderment, the grey owl landed in front of her plate, closely followed by four barn owls, a brown owl and a tawny. ‘how many subscriptions did you take out?’ said Harry_Potter, seizing Hermione_Granger’s goblet before it was knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were jostling close to her, trying to deliver their own letter first. ‘what on earth –?’ Hermione_Granger said, taking the letter from the grey owl, opening it and starting to read. ‘oh, really!’ she spluttered, going rather red. ‘what’s up?’ said ron. ‘it’s – oh, how ridiculous –’ she thrust the letter at Harry_Potter, who saw that it was not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters that seemed to have been cut out of the daily prophet. you are a wicked girl. Harry_Potter potter deserves better. go back where you came from muggle. ‘they’re all like it!’ said Hermione_Granger desperately, opening one letter after another. ‘“Harry_Potter potter can do much better than the likes of you …” “you deserve to be boiled in frog-spawn …” ouch!’ she had opened the last envelope, and yellowish green liquid smelling strongly of petrol gushed over her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils. ‘undiluted bubotuber pus!’ said ron, picking up the envelope gingerly and sniffing it. ‘ow!’ said Hermione_Granger, tears starting in her eyes as she tried to rub it off her hands with a napkin, but her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful sores that it looked as though she was wearing a pair of thick, knobbly gloves. ‘you’d better get up to the hospital wing,’ said Harry_Potter, as the owls around Hermione_Granger took flight, ‘we’ll tell professor sprout where you’ve gone …’ ‘i warned her!’ said ron, as Hermione_Granger hurried out of the great hall, cradling her hands. ‘i warned her not to annoy Rita_Skeeter skeeter! look at this one …’ he read out one of the letters Hermione_Granger had left behind, ‘“i read in witch weekly about how you are playing Harry_Potter potter false and that boy has had enough hardship and i will be sending you a curse by next post as soon as i can find a big enough envelope.” blimey, she’d better watch out for herself.’ Hermione_Granger didn’t turn up for herbology. as Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyleft the greenhouse for their care of Magic_goblinal creatures class, they saw malfoy, crabbe and Goyle descending the stone steps from the castle. Pansy_Parkinson parkinson was whispering and giggling behind them with her gang of slytherin girls. catching sight of Harry_Potter, Pansy_Parkinson called, ‘potter, have you split up with your girlfriend? why was she so upset at breakfast?’ Harry_Potter ignored her; he didn’t want to give her the satisfaction of knowing how much trouble the witch weekly article had caused. Rubeus_Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had finished with unicorns,   was waiting for them outside his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his feet. Harry_Potter’s heart sank at the sight of the crates – surely not another skrewt hatching? – but when he got near enough to see inside, he found himself looking at a number of Fluffy black creatures with long snouts. their front paws were curiously flat, like spades, and they were blinking up at the class, looking politely puzzled at all the attention. ‘these’re nifflers,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, when the class had gathered around. ‘yeh find ’em down mines mostly. they like sparkly stuff … there yeh go, look.’ one of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and attempted to bite Pansy_Parkinson parkinson’s watch off her wrist. she shrieked and jumped backwards. ‘useful little treasure detectors,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid happily. ‘thought we’d have some fun with ’em today. see over there?’ he pointed at the large patch of freshly turned earth Harry_Potter had watched him digging from the owlery window. ‘i’ve buried some gold coins. i’ve got a prize fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most. jus’ take off all yer valuables, an’ choose a niffler an’ get ready ter set ’em loose.’ Harry_Potter took off his watch, which he was only wearing out of habit, as it didn’t work any more, and stuffed it in his pocket. then he picked up a niffler. it put its long snout in Harry_Potter’s ear and sniffed enthusiastically. it was really quite cuddly. ‘hang on,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking down into the crate, ‘there’s a spare niffler here … who’s missin’? where’s Hermione_Granger?’ ‘she had to go to the hospital wing,’ said ron. ‘we’ll explain later,’ Harry_Potter muttered; Pansy_Parkinson parkinson was listening. it was easily the most fun they had ever had in care of Magic_goblinal creatures. the nifflers dived in and out of the patch of earth as though it was water, each scurrying back to the student who had released it and spitting gold into their hands. ron’s was particularly efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins. ‘can you buy these as pets, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ he asked excitedly, as his niffler dived back into the soil, splattering his robes. ‘yer mum wouldn’ be happy, ron,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, grinning, ‘they wreck houses, nifflers. i reckon they’ve nearly got the lot now,’ he added, pacing around the patch of earth, while the nifflers continued to dive. ‘i on’y buried a hundred coins. oh, there y’are, Hermione_Granger!’ Hermione_Granger was walking towards them across the lawn. her hands were very heavily bandaged and she looked miserable. Pansy_Parkinson parkinson was watching her beadily. ‘well, let’s check how yeh’ve done!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘count yer coins! an’ there’s no point tryin’ ter steal any, Goyle,’ he added, his beetle-black eyes narrowed. ‘it’s leprechaun gold. vanishes after a few hours.’ Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky. it turned out that ron’s niffler had been most successful, so Rubeus_Hagrid gave him an enormous slab of honeydukes chocolate for a prize. the bell rang across the grounds for lunch; the rest of the class set off back to the castle, but Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stayed behind to help Rubeus_Hagrid put the nifflers back in their boxes. Harry_Potter noticed madame maxime watching them out of her carriage window. ‘what yeh done ter your hands, Hermione_Granger?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, looking concerned. Hermione_Granger told him about the hate mail she had received that morning, and the envelope full of bubotuber pus. ‘aaah, don’ worry,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid gently, looking down at her. ‘i got some o’ those letters an’ all, after Rita_Skeeter skeeter wrote abou’ me mum. “yeh’re a monster an’ yeh should be put down.” “yer mother killed innocent people an’ if you had any decency you’d jump in a lake.”’ ‘no!’ said Hermione_Granger, looking shocked. ‘yeah,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by his cabin wall. ‘they’re jus’ nutters, Hermione_Granger. don’ open ’em if yeh get any more. chuck ’em straigh’ in the fire.’ ‘you missed a really good lesson,’ Harry_Potter told Hermione_Granger, as they headed back towards the castle. ‘they’re good, nifflers, aren’t they, ron?’ ron, however, was frowning at the chocolate Rubeus_Hagrid had given him. he looked thoroughly put out about something. ‘what’s the matter?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘wrong flavour?’ ‘no,’ saidRonald_Weasleyshortly. ‘why didn’t you tell me about the gold?’ ‘what gold?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘the gold i gave you at the quidditch world cup,’ said ron. ‘the leprechaun gold i gave you for my omnioculars. in the top box. why didn’t you tell me it disappeared?’ Harry_Potter had to think for a moment before he realised whatRonald_Weasleywas talking about. ‘oh …’ he said, the memory coming back to him at last. ‘i dunno … i never noticed it had gone. i was more worried about my wand, wasn’t i?’ they climbed the steps into the entrance hall and went into the great hall for lunch. ‘must be nice,’Ronald_Weasleysaid abruptly, when they had sat down and started serving themselves roast beef and yorkshire puddings. ‘to have so much money you don’t notice if a pocketful of galleons goes missing.’ ‘listen, i had other stuff on my mind that night!’ said Harry_Potter impatiently. ‘we all did, remember?’ ‘i didn’t know leprechaun gold vanishes,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered. ‘i thought i was paying you back. you shouldn’t’ve given me that chudley cannon hat for christmas.’ ‘forget it, all right?’ said Harry_Potter.Ronald_Weasleyspeared a roast potato on the end of his fork, glaring at it. then he said, ‘i hate being poor.’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger looked at each other. neither of them really knew what to say. ‘it’s rubbish,’ said ron, still glaring down at his potato. ‘i don’t blame Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley for trying to make some extra money. wish i could. wish i had a niffler.’ ‘well, we know what to get you next christmas,’ said Hermione_Granger brightly. then, whenRonald_Weasleycontinued to look Gloomy_nuns, she said, ‘come on, ron, it could be worse. at least your fingers aren’t full of pus.’ Hermione_Granger was having a lot of difficulty managing her knife and fork, her fingers were so stiff and swollen. ‘i hate that skeeter woman!’ she burst out savagely. ‘i’ll get her back for this if it’s the last thing i do!’ * hate mail continued to arrive for Hermione_Granger over the following week, and although she followed Rubeus_Hagrid’s advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill-wishers sent howlers, which exploded at the gryffindor table and shrieked insults at her for the whole hall to hear. even those people who didn’t read witch weekly knew all about the supposed Harry_Potter–krum–Hermione_Granger triangle now. Harry_Potter was getting sick of telling people that Hermione_Granger wasn’t his girlfriend. ‘it’ll die down, though,’ he told Hermione_Granger, ‘if we just ignore it … people got bored with that stuff she wrote about me last time –’ ‘i want to know how she’s listening into private conversations when she’s supposed to be banned from the grounds!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. Hermione_Granger hung back in their next defence against the dark arts lesson to ask professor moody something. the rest of the class were very eager to leave; moody had given them such a rIgor_Karkaroffous test of hex-deflection that many of them were nursing small injuries. Harry_Potter had such a bad case of twitchy ears, he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he walked away from the class. ‘well, Rita_Skeeter’s definitely not using an invisibility cloak!’ Hermione_Granger panted five minutes later, catching up with Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyin the entrance hall and pulling Harry_Potter’s hand away from one of his wiggling ears so that he could hear. ‘moody says he didn’t see her anywhere near the judges’ table at the second task, or anywhere near the lake!’ ‘Hermione_Granger, is there any point telling you to drop this?’ said ron. ‘no!’ said Hermione_Granger stubbornly. ‘i want to know how she heard me talking to Viktor_Krum! and how she found out about Rubeus_Hagrid’s mum!’ ‘maybe she had you bugged,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘bugged?’ saidRonald_Weasleyblankly. ‘what … put fleas on her or something?’ Harry_Potter started explaining about hidden microphones and recording equipment.Ronald_Weasleywas fascinated, but Hermione_Granger interrupted them. ‘aren’t you two ever going to read hogwarts: a history?’ ‘what’s the point?’ said ron. ‘you know it off by heart, we can just ask you.’ ‘all those substitutes for Magic_goblin muggles use – electricity, and computers and radar, and all those things – they all go haywire around hogwarts, there’s too much Magic_goblin in the air. no, Rita_Skeeter’s using Magic_goblin to eavesdrop, she must be … if i could just find out what it is … ooh, if it’s illegal, i’ll have her …’ ‘haven’t we got enough to worry about?’Ronald_Weasleyasked her. ‘do we have to start a vendetta against Rita_Skeeter skeeter as well?’ ‘i’m not asking you to help!’ Hermione_Granger snapped. ‘i’ll do it on my own!’ she marched back up the marble staircase without a backward glance. Harry_Potter was quite sure she was going to the library. ‘what’s the betting she comes back with a box of i hate Rita_Skeeter skeeter badges?’ said ron. Hermione_Granger, however, did not ask Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyto help her pursue vengeance against Rita_Skeeter skeeter, for which they were both grateful, because their workload was mounting ever higher in the run-up to the easter holidays. Harry_Potter Frank_Brycely marvelled at the fact that Hermione_Granger could research Magic_goblinal methods of eavesdropping as well as everything else they had to do. he was working flat out just to get through all their homework, though he made a point of sending regular food packages up to the cave in the mountain for Sirius_Black; after last summer, he had not forgotten what it felt like to be continually hungry. he enclosed notes to Sirius_Black, telling him that nothing out of the ordinary had happened, and that they were still waiting for an answer from Percy_Weasley. Hedwig didn’t return until the end of the easter holidays. Percy_Weasley’s letter was enclosed in a package of easter eggs that mrs weasley had sent. both Harry_Potter’s and ron’s were the size of dragon eggs, and full of home-made toffee. Hermione_Granger’s, however, was smaller than a chicken’s egg. her face fell when she saw it. ‘your mum doesn’t read witch weekly, by any chance, does she, ron?’ she asked quietly. ‘yeah,’ said ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. ‘gets it for the recipes.’ Hermione_Granger looked sadly at her tiny egg. ‘don’t you want to see what Percy_Weasley’s written?’ Harry_Potter asked her hastily. Percy_Weasley’s letter was short and irRita_Skeeterble. as i am conStanley_Shunpiketly telling the daily prophet, mr crouch is taking a well-deserved break. he is sending in regular owls with instructions. no, i haven’t actually seen him, but i think i can be trusted to know my own superior’s handwriting. i have quite enough to do at the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous rumours. please don’t bother me again unless it’s something important. happy easter. * the start of the summer term would normally have meant that Harry_Potter was training hard for the last quidditch match of the season. this year, however, it was the third and final task in the triwizard tournament for which he needed to prepare, but he still didn’t know what he would have to do. finally, in the last week of may, professor Minerva_McGonagall held him back in transfiguration. ‘you are to go down to the quidditch pitch tonight at nine o’clock, potter,’ she told him. ‘mr bagman will be there to tell the champions about the third task.’ so at half past eight that night, Harry_Potter leftRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger in gryffindor tower, and went downstairs. as he crossed the entrance hall, Cedric_Diggory came up from the hufflepuff common room. ‘what d’you reckon it’s going to be?’ he asked Harry_Potter, as they went together down the stone steps, out into the cloudy night. ‘Fleur_Delacour keeps going on about underground tunnels, she reckons we’ve got to find treasure.’ ‘that wouldn’t be too bad,’ said Harry_Potter, thinking that he would simply ask   Rubeus_Hagrid for a niffler to do the job for him. they walked down the dark lawn to the quidditch stadium, turned through a gap in the Stanley_Shunpikeds, and walked out onto the pitch. ‘what’ve they done to it?’ Cedric_Diggory said indignantly, stopping dead. the quidditch pitch was no longer smooth and flat. it looked as though somebody had been building long, low walls all over it, twisting and criss- crossing in every direction. ‘they’re hedges!’ said Harry_Potter, bending to examine the nearest one. ‘hello there!’ called a cheery voice. Ludovic_Bagman bagman was Stanley_Shunpikeding in the middle of the pitch with krum and Fleur_Delacour. Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory made their way towards them, climbing over the hedges. Fleur_Delacour beamed at Harry_Potter as he came nearer. her attitude to him had changed completely since he had pulled her sister out of the lake. ‘well, what d’you think?’ said bagman happily, as Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory climbed over the last hedge. ‘growing nicely, aren’t they? give them a month and Rubeus_Hagrid’ll have them twenty foot high. don’t worry,’ he added grinning, spotting the less-than-happy expressions on Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory’s faces, ‘you’ll have your quidditch pitch back to normal once the task is over! now, i imagine you can guess what we’re making here?’ no one spoke for a moment. then – ‘maze,’ grunted krum. ‘that’s right!’ said bagman. ‘a maze. the third task’s really very straightforward. the triwizard cup will be placed in the centre of the maze. the first champion to touch it will receive full marks.’ ‘we seemply ’ave to get through the maze?’ said Fleur_Delacour. ‘there will be obstacles,’ said bagman happily, bouncing on the balls of his feet. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid is providing a number of creatures … then there will be spells that must be broken … all that sort of thing, you know. now, the champions who are leading on points will get a head start into the maze.’ bagman grinned at Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory. ‘then mr krum will enter … then miss delacour. but you’ll all be in with a fighting chance, depending on how well you get past the obstacles. should be fun, eh?’ Harry_Potter, who knew only too well the kind of creatures that Rubeus_Hagrid was likely to provide for an event like this, thought it was unlikely to be any fun at all. however, he nodded politely like the other champions. ‘very well … if you haven’t got any questions, we’ll go back up to the castle, shall we, it’s a bit chilly …’ bagman hurried alongside Harry_Potter as they began to wend their way out of the growing maze. Harry_Potter had the feeling that bagman was going to start offering to help him again, but just then, krum tapped Harry_Potter on the shoulder. ‘could i haff a vord?’ ‘yeah, all right,’ said Harry_Potter, slightly surprised. ‘vill you valk vith me?’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter curiously. bagman looked slightly perturbed. ‘i’ll wait for you, Harry_Potter, shall i?’ ‘no, it’s ok, mr bagman,’ said Harry_Potter, suppressing a smile, ‘i think i can find the castle on my own, thanks.’ Harry_Potter and krum left the stadium together, but krum did not set a course for the durmstrang ship. instead, he walked towards the forest. ‘what’re we going this way for?’ said Harry_Potter, as they passed Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin, and the illuminated beauxbatons carriage. ‘don’t vant to be overheard,’ said krum shortly. when at last they had reached a quiet stretch of ground, a short way from the beauxbatons’ horses’ paddock, krum stopped in the shade of the trees and turned to face Harry_Potter. ‘i vant to know,’ he said, glowering, ‘vot there is between you and Hermione_Granger- own-ninny.’ Harry_Potter, who from krum’s secretive manner had expected something much more serious than this, stared up at krum in amazement. ‘nothing,’ he said. but krum glowered at him, and Harry_Potter, somehow struck anew by how Tall_goblin krum was, elaborated. ‘we’re friends. she’s not my girlfriend and she never has been. it’s just that skeeter woman making things up.’ ‘Hermione_Granger-own-ninny talks about you very often,’ said krum, looking suspiciously at Harry_Potter. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘because we’re friends.’ he couldn’t quite believe he was having this conversation with Viktor_Krum krum, the famous international quidditch player. it was as though the eighteen-year-old krum thought he, Harry_Potter, was an equal – a real rival – ‘you haff never … you haff not …’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, very firmly. krum looked slightly happier. he stared at Harry_Potter for a few seconds, then said, ‘you fly very well. i vos votching at the first task.’ ‘thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning broadly, and suddenly feeling much Tall_gobliner himself. ‘i saw you at the quidditch world cup. the wronski feint, you really –’ but something moved behind krum in the trees, and Harry_Potter, who had some experience of the sort of thing that lurked in the forest, instinctively grabbed krum’s arm and pulled him around. ‘vot is it?’ Harry_Potter shook his head, staring at the place where he’d seen movement. he slipped his hand inside his robes, reaching for his wand. next moment a man had staggered out from behind a Tall_goblin oak. for a moment, Harry_Potter didn’t recognise him … then he realised it was mr crouch. he looked as though he had been travelling for days. the knees of his robes were ripped and Bloody_Baron; his face scratched; he was unshaven and grey with exhaustion. his neat hair and moustache were both in need of a wash and a trim. his strange appearance, however, was nothing to the way he was behaving. muttering and gesticulating, mr crouch appeared to be talking to someone that he alone could see. he reminded Harry_Potter vividly of an old tramp he had seen once when out shopping with the dursleys. that man, too, had been conversing wildly with thin air; aunt Petunia_Dursley had seized Dudley_Dursley’s hand and pulled him across the road to avoid him; uncle Vernon_Dursley had then treated the family to a long rant about what he would like to do with beggars and vagrants. ‘vosn’t he a judge?’ said krum, staring at mr crouch. ‘isn’t he vith your ministry?’ Harry_Potter nodded, hesitated for a moment, then walked slowly towards mr crouch, who did not look at him, but continued to talk to a nearby tree: ‘… and when you’ve done that, weatherby, send an owl to Albus_Dumbledore confirming the number of durmstrang students who will be attending the tournament, karkaroff has just sent word there will be twelve …’ ‘mr crouch?’ said Harry_Potter cautiously. ‘… and then send another owl to madame maxime, because she might want to up the number of students she’s bringing, now karkaroff’s made it a round dozen … do that, weatherby, will you? will you? will …’ mr crouch’s eyes were bulging. he stood staring at the tree, muttering soundlessly at it. then he staggered sideways, and fell to his knees. ‘mr crouch?’ Harry_Potter said loudly. ‘are you all right?’ crouch’s eyes were rolling in his head. Harry_Potter looked around at krum, who had followed him into the trees, and was looking down at crouch in alarm. ‘vot is wrong with him?’ ‘no idea,’ Harry_Potter muttered. ‘listen, you’d better go and get someone –’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore!’ gasped mr crouch. he reached out and seized a handful of Harry_Potter’s robes, dragging him closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry_Potter’s head. ‘i need … see … Albus_Dumbledore …’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘if you get up, mr crouch, we can go up to the –’ ‘i’ve done … stupid … thing …’ mr crouch breathed. he looked utterly mad. his eyes were rolling and bulging, and a trickle of spittle was sliding down his chin. every word he spoke seemed to cost him a terrible effort. ‘must … tell … Albus_Dumbledore …’ ‘get up, mr crouch,’ said Harry_Potter loudly and clearly. ‘get up, i’ll take you to Albus_Dumbledore!’ mr crouch’s eyes rolled forwards onto Harry_Potter. ‘who … you?’ he whispered. ‘i’m a student at the school,’ said Harry_Potter, looking around at krum for some help, but krum was hanging back, looking extremely nervous. ‘you’re not … his?’ whispered crouch, his mouth sagging. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, without the faintest idea what crouch was talking about. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s?’ ‘that’s right,’ said Harry_Potter. crouch was pulling him closer; Harry_Potter tried to loosen crouch’s grip on his robes, but it was too powerful. ‘warn … Albus_Dumbledore …’ ‘i’ll get Albus_Dumbledore if you let go of me,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘just let go, mr crouch, and i’ll get him …’ ‘thank you, weatherby, and when you have done that, i would like a cup of tea. my wife and son will be arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight with mr and mrs fudge.’ crouch was now talking fluently to a tree again, and seemed completely unaware that Harry_Potter was there, which surprised Harry_Potter so much he didn’t notice that crouch had released him. ‘yes, my son has recently gained twelve o.w.ls, most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud indeed. now, if you could bring me that memo from the andorran minister for Magic_goblin, i think i will have time to draft a response …’ ‘you stay here with him!’ Harry_Potter said to krum. ‘i’ll get Albus_Dumbledore, i’ll be quicker, i know where his office is –’ ‘he is mad,’ said krum doubtfully, staring down at crouch, who was still gabbling to the tree, apparently convinced it was Percy_Weasley. ‘just stay with him,’ said Harry_Potter, starting to get up, but his movement seemed to trigger another abrupt change in mr crouch, who seized him hard around the knees and pulled Harry_Potter back to the ground. ‘don’t … leave … me!’ he whispered, his eyes bulging again. ‘i … escaped … must warn … must tell … see Albus_Dumbledore … my fault … all my fault … Bertha_Jorkins … dead … all my fault … my son … my fault … tell Albus_Dumbledore … Harry_Potter potter … the dark lord … stronger … Harry_Potter potter …’ ‘i’ll get Albus_Dumbledore if you let me go, mr crouch!’ said Harry_Potter. he looked furiously around at krum. ‘help me, will you?’ looking extremely apprehensive, krum moved forward and squatted down next to mr crouch. ‘just keep him here,’ said Harry_Potter, pulling himself free of mr crouch. ‘i’ll be back with Albus_Dumbledore.’ ‘hurry, von’t you?’ krum called after him, as Harry_Potter sprinted away from the forest, and up through the dark grounds. they were deserted; bagman, Cedric_Diggory and Fleur_Delacour had disappeared. Harry_Potter tore up the stone steps, through the oak front doors and off up the marble staircase, towards the second floor. five minutes later he was hurtling towards a stone garGoyle Stanley_Shunpikeding halfway along an empty corridor. ‘sher-sherbet lemon!’ he panted at it. this was the password to the hidden staircase to Albus_Dumbledore’s office – or, at least, it had been two years ago. the password had evidently changed, however, for the stone garGoyle did not spring to life and jump aside, but stood frozen, glaring at Harry_Potter malevolently. ‘move!’ Harry_Potter shouted at it. ‘c’mon!’ but nothing at hogwarts had ever moved just because he shouted at it; he knew it was no good. he looked up and down the dark corridor. perhaps Albus_Dumbledore was in the staff room? he started running as fast as he could towards the staircase – ‘potter!’ Harry_Potter skidded to a halt and looked around. snape had just emerged from the hidden staircase behind the stone garGoyle. the wall was sliding shut behind him even as he beckoned Harry_Potter back towards him. ‘what are you doing here, potter?’ ‘i need to see professor Albus_Dumbledore!’ said Harry_Potter, running back up the corridor and skidding to a Stanley_Shunpikedstill in front of snape instead. ‘it’s mr crouch … he’s just turned up … he’s in the forest … he’s asking –’ ‘what is this rubbish?’ said snape, his black eyes glittering. ‘what are you talking about?’ ‘mr crouch!’ Harry_Potter shouted. ‘from the ministry! he’s ill or something – he’s in the forest, he wants to see Albus_Dumbledore! just give me the password up to –’ ‘the headmaster is busy, potter,’ said snape, his thin mouth curling into an unpleasant smile. ‘i’ve got to tell Albus_Dumbledore!’ Harry_Potter yelled. ‘didn’t you hear me, potter?’ Harry_Potter could tell snape was thoroughly enjoying himself, denying Harry_Potter the thing he wanted when he was so paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtony. ‘look,’ said Harry_Potter angrily, ‘crouch isn’t right – he’s – he’s out of his mind – he says he wants to warn –’ the stone wall behind snape slid open. Albus_Dumbledore was Stanley_Shunpikeding there, wearing long green robes, and a mildly curious expression. ‘is there a problem?’ he said, looking between Harry_Potter and snape. ‘professor!’ Harry_Potter said, side-stepping snape before snape could speak. ‘mr crouch is here – he’s down in the forest, he wants to speak to you!’ Harry_Potter expected Albus_Dumbledore to ask questions but, to his relief, Albus_Dumbledore did nothing of the sort. ‘lead the way,’ he said promptly, and he swept off along the corridor behind Harry_Potter, leaving snape Stanley_Shunpikeding next to the garGoyle and looking twice as ugly. ‘what did mr crouch say, Harry_Potter?’ said Albus_Dumbledore, as they walked swiftly down the marble staircase. ‘said he wants to warn you … said he’s done something terrible … he mentioned his son … and Bertha_Jorkins jorkins … and – and voldemort … something about voldemort getting stronger …’ ‘indeed,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, and he quickened his pace as they hurried out into the pitch-darkness. ‘he’s not acting normally,’ Harry_Potter said, hurrying along beside Albus_Dumbledore. ‘he doesn’t seem to know where he is. he keeps talking like he thinks Percy_Weasley weasley’s there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see you … i left him with Viktor_Krum krum.’ ‘you did?’ said Albus_Dumbledore sharply, and he began to take longer strides still, so that Harry_Potter was running to keep up. ‘do you know if anybody else saw mr crouch?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘krum and i were talking, mr bagman had just finished telling us about the third task, we stayed behind, and then we saw mr crouch coming out of the forest –’ ‘where are they?’ said Albus_Dumbledore, as the beauxbatons carriage emerged from the darkness. ‘over here,’ said Harry_Potter, moving in front of Albus_Dumbledore, leading the way through the trees. he couldn’t hear crouch’s voice any more, but he knew where he was going; it hadn’t been much past the beauxbatons carriage … somewhere around here … ‘Viktor_Krum?’ Harry_Potter shouted. no one answered. ‘they were here,’ Harry_Potter said to Albus_Dumbledore. ‘they were definitely somewhere around here …’ ‘lumos,’ Albus_Dumbledore said, lighting his wand and holding it up. its narrow beam travelled from black trunk to black trunk, illuminating the ground. and then it fell upon a pair of feet. Harry_Potter and Albus_Dumbledore hurried forwards. krum was sprawled on the forest floor. he seemed to be unconscious. there was no sign at all of mr crouch. Albus_Dumbledore bent over krum and gently lifted one of his eyelids. ‘stunned,’ he said softly. his half-moon glasses glittered in the wandlight as he peered around at the surrounding trees. ‘should i go and get someone?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘madam pomfrey?’ ‘no,’ said Albus_Dumbledore swiftly. ‘stay here.’ he raised his wand into the air and pointed it in the direction of Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. Harry_Potter saw something silvery dart out of it and streak away through the trees like a ghostly bird. then Albus_Dumbledore bent over krum again, pointed his wand at him, and muttered, ‘rennervate.’ krum opened his eyes. he looked dazed. when he saw Albus_Dumbledore, he tried to sit up, but Albus_Dumbledore put a hand on his shoulder and made him lie still. ‘he attacked me!’ krum muttered, putting a hand up to his head. ‘the old madman attacked me! i vos looking around to see vare potter had gone and he attacked from behind!’ ‘lie still for a moment,’ Albus_Dumbledore said. the sound of thunderous footfalls reached them, and Rubeus_Hagrid came panting into sight with Fang at his heels. he was carrying his crossbow. ‘professor Albus_Dumbledore!’ he said, his eyes widening. ‘Harry_Potter – what the –?’ ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, i need you to fetch professor karkaroff,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘his student has been attacked. when you’ve done that, kindly alert professor moody –’ ‘no need, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said a wheezy growl, ‘i’m here.’ moody was limping towards them, leaning on his staff, his wand lit. ‘damn leg,’ he said furiously. ‘would’ve been here quicker … what’s happened? snape said something about crouch –’ ‘crouch?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid blankly. ‘karkaroff, please, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ said Albus_Dumbledore sharply. ‘oh yeah … right y’are, professor …’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, and he turned and disappeared into the dark trees, Fang trotting after him. ‘i don’t know where Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch is,’ Albus_Dumbledore told moody, ‘but it is essential that we find him.’ ‘i’m onto it,’ growled moody, and he raised his wand, and limped off into the forest. neither Albus_Dumbledore nor Harry_Potter spoke again until they heard the unmistakeable sounds of Rubeus_Hagrid and Fang returning. karkaroff was hurrying along behind them. he was wearing his sleek silver furs, and he looked pale and agitated. ‘what is this?’ he cried, when he saw krum on the ground, and Albus_Dumbledore and Harry_Potter beside him. ‘what’s going on?’ ‘i vos attacked!’ said krum, sitting up now, and rubbing his head. ‘mr crouch or votever his name –’ ‘crouch attacked you? crouch attacked you? the triwizard judge?’ ‘Igor_Karkaroff,’ Albus_Dumbledore began, but karkaroff had drawn himself up, clutching his furs around him, looking livid. ‘treachery!’ he bellowed, pointing at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘it is a plot! you and your ministry of Magic_goblin have lured me here under false pretences, Albus_Dumbledore! this is not an equal competition! first you sneak potter into the tournament, though he is underage! now one of your ministry friends attempts to put my champion out of action! i smell double-dealing and corruption in this whole affair, and you, Albus_Dumbledore, you, with your talk of closer international wizarding links, of rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences – here’s what i think of you!’ karkaroff spat onto the ground at Albus_Dumbledore’s feet. in one swift movement, Rubeus_Hagrid seized the front of karkaroff’s furs, lifted him into the air, and slammed him against a nearby tree. ‘apologise!’ Rubeus_Hagrid snarled, as karkaroff gasped for breath, Rubeus_Hagrid’s massive fist at his throat, his feet dangling in mid-air. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, no!’ Albus_Dumbledore shouted, his eyes flashing. Rubeus_Hagrid removed the hand pinning karkaroff to the tree, and karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk and slumped in a huddle at its roots; a few twigs and leaves showered down upon his head. ‘kindly escort Harry_Potter back up to the castle, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Albus_Dumbledore sharply. breathing heavily, Rubeus_Hagrid gave karkaroff a glowering look. ‘maybe i’d better stay here, headmaster …’ ‘you will take Harry_Potter back to school, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ Albus_Dumbledore repeated firmly. ‘take him right up to gryffindor tower. and Harry_Potter – i want you to stay there. anything you might want to do – any owls you might want to send – they can wait until morning, do you underStanley_Shunpiked me?’ ‘er – yes,’ said Harry_Potter, staring at him. how had Albus_Dumbledore known that, at that very moment, he had been thinking about sending Pigwidgeon straight to Sirius_Black, to tell him what had happened? ‘i’ll leave Fang with yeh, headmaster,’ Rubeus_Hagrid said, still staring menacingly at karkaroff, who was still sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and tree-roots. ‘stay, Fang. c’mon, Harry_Potter.’ they marched in silence past the beauxbatons carriage and up towards the castle. ‘how dare he,’ Rubeus_Hagrid growled, as they strode past the lake. ‘how dare he accuse Albus_Dumbledore. like Albus_Dumbledore’d do anythin’ like that. like Albus_Dumbledore wanted you in the tournament in the firs’ place. worried! i dunno when i seen Albus_Dumbledore more worried than he’s bin lately. an’ you!’ Rubeus_Hagrid suddenly said angrily to Harry_Potter, who looked up at him, taken aback. ‘what were yeh doin’, wanderin’ off with ruddy krum? he’s from durmstrang, Harry_Potter! coulda jinxed yeh right there, couldn’ he? hasn’ moody taught yeh nothin’? ’magine lettin’ him lure yeh off on yer own –’ ‘krum’s all right!’ said Harry_Potter, as they climbed the steps into the entrance hall. ‘he wasn’t trying to jinx me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione_Granger –’ ‘i’ll be havin’ a few words with her, an’ all,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. ‘the less you lot ’ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh’ll be. yeh can’ trust any of ’em.’ ‘you were getting on all right with madame maxime,’ Harry_Potter said, annoyed. ‘don’ you talk ter me abou’ her!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, and he looked quite frightening for a moment. ‘i’ve got her number now! tryin’ ter get back in me good books, tryin’ ter get me ter tell her what’s comin’ in the third task. ha! you can’ trust any of ’em!’ Rubeus_Hagrid was in such a bad mood, Harry_Potter was quite glad to say goodbye to him in front of the Fat_Lady. he clambered through the portrait hole into the common room, and hurried straight for the corner whereRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger were sitting, to tell them what had happened. 