— chapter twenty-three — the yule ball despite the very heavy load of homework that the fourth-years had been given for the holidays, Harry_Potter was in no mood to work when term ended, and spent the week leading up to christmas enjoying himself as fully as possible along with everyone else. gryffindor tower was hardly less crowded now than during term-time; it seemed to have shrunk slightly, too, as its inhabitants were being so much rowdier than usual. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had had a great success with their canary creams, and for the first couple of days of the holidays, people kept bursting into feather all over the place. before long, however, all the gryffindors had learnt to treat food anybody else offered them with extreme caution, in case it had a canary cream concealed in the centre, and George_Weasley confided to Harry_Potter that he and Fred_Weasley were now working on developing something else. Harry_Potter made a mental note never to accept so much as a crisp from Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley in future. he still hadn’t forgotten Dudley_Dursley and the ton-tongue toffee. snow was falling thickly upon the castle and its grounds now. the pale blue beauxbatons carriage looked like a large, chilly, frosted pumpkin next to the iced gingerbread house that was Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin, while the durmstrang ship’s portholes were glazed with ice, the rigging white with frost. the house- elves down in the kitchen were outdoing themselves with a series of rich, warming stews and savoury puddings, and only Fleur_Delacour delacour seemed to be able to find anything to complain about. ‘it is too ’eavy, all zis ’ogwarts food,’ they heard her saying grumpily, as they left the great hall behind her one evening (ron skulking behind Harry_Potter, keen not to be spotted by Fleur_Delacour). ‘i will not fit into my dress robes!’ ‘oooh, there’s a tragedy,’ said Hermione_Granger snappily, as Fleur_Delacour went out into the entrance hall. ‘she really thinks a lot of herself, that one, doesn’t she?’ ‘Hermione_Granger – who are you going to the ball with?’ said ron. he kept springing this question on her, hoping to startle her into a response by asking it when she least expected it. however, Hermione_Granger merely frowned and said, ‘i’m not telling you, you’ll just make fun of me.’    ‘you’re joking, weasley?’ said malfoy, behind them. ‘you’re not telling me someone’s asked that to the ball? not the long-molared mudblood?’ Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyboth whipped around, but Hermione_Granger said loudly, waving to somebody over malfoy’s shoulder, ‘hello, professor moody!’ malfoy went pale and jumped backwards, looking wildly around for moody, but he was still up at the staff table, finishing his stew. ‘twitchy little ferret, aren’t you, malfoy?’ said Hermione_Granger scathingly, and she, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleywent up the marble staircase laughing heartily. ‘Hermione_Granger,’ said ron, looking sideways at her, suddenly frowning, ‘your teeth …’ ‘what about them?’ she said. ‘well, they’re different … i’ve just noticed …’ ‘of course they are – did you expect me to keep those Fangs malfoy gave me?’ ‘no, i mean, they’re different to how they were before he put that hex on you … they’re all … straight and – and normal sized.’ Hermione_Granger suddenly smiled very mischievously, and Harry_Potter noticed it too: it was a very different smile to the one he remembered. ‘well … when i went up to madam pomfrey to get them shrunk, she held up a mirror, and told me to stop her when they were back to how they normally were,’ she said. ‘and i just … let her carry on a bit.’ she smiled even more widely. ‘mum and dad won’t be too pleased. i’ve been trying to persuade them to let me shrink them for ages, but they wanted me to carry on with my brace. you know, they’re dentists, they just don’t think teeth and Magic_goblin should – look! Pigwidgeon’s back!’ ron’s tiny owl was twittering madly on the top of the icicle-laden banisters, a scroll of parchment tied to his leg. people passing him were pointing and laughing, and a group of third-year girls paused and said, ‘oh, look at the weeny owl! isn’t he cute?’ ‘stupid little feathery git!’Ronald_Weasleyhissed, hurrying up the stairs and snatching Pigwidgeon up. ‘you bring letters straight to the addressee! you don’t hang around showing off!’ Pigwidgeon hooted happily, his head protruding over ron’s fist. the third- year girls all looked very shocked. ‘clear off!’Ronald_Weasleysnapped at them, waving the fist holding Pigwidgeon, who hooted more happily than ever as he soared through the air. ‘here – take it, Harry_Potter,’Ronald_Weasleyadded in an undertone, as the third-year girls scuttled away looking scandalised. he pulled Sirius_Black’ reply off Pigwidgeon’s leg, Harry_Potter pocketed it, and they hurried back to gryffindor tower to read it. everyone in the common room was much too busy letting off more holiday steam to observe what anyone else was up to. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger sat apart from everyone else by a dark window that was gradually filling up with snow, and Harry_Potter read out: dear Harry_Potter, congratulations on getting past the horntail, whoever put your name in that goblet shouldn’t be feeling too happy right now! i was going to suggest a conjunctivitis curse, as a dragon’s eyes are its weakest point – ‘that’s what krum did!’ Hermione_Granger whispered. – but your way was better, i’m impressed. don’t get complacent, though, Harry_Potter. you’ve only done one task; whoever put you in for the tournament’s got plenty more opportunity if they’re trying to hurt you. keep your eyes open – particularly when the person we discussed is around – and concentrate on keeping yourself out of trouble. keep in touch, i still want to hear about anything unusual. Sirius_Black ‘he sounds exactly like moody,’ said Harry_Potter quietly, tucking the letter away again inside his robes, ‘“conStanley_Shunpiket vigilance!” you’d think i walk around with my eyes shut, banging off the walls …’ ‘but he’s right, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘you have still got two tasks to do. you really ought to have a look at that egg, you know, and start working out what it means …’ ‘Hermione_Granger, he’s got ages!’ snapped ron. ‘want a game of chess, Harry_Potter?’ ‘yeah, ok,’ said Harry_Potter. then, spotting the look on Hermione_Granger’s face, he said, ‘come on, how’m i supposed to concentrate with all this noise going on? i won’t even be able to hear the egg over this lot.’ ‘oh, i suppose not,’ she sighed, and she sat down to watch their chess match, which culminated in an exciting checkmate of ron’s, involving a couple of recklessly brave pawns and a very violent bishop. * Harry_Potter awoke very suddenly on christmas day. wondering what had caused     his abrupt return to consciousness, he opened his eyes, and saw something with very large, round, green eyes staring back at him in the darkness, so close they were almost nose to nose. ‘Dobby!’ Harry_Potter yelled, scrambling away from theWinkyso fast he almost fell out of bed. ‘don’t do that!’ ‘Dobby is sorry, sir!’ squeaked Dobby anxiously, jumping backwards with his long fingers over his mouth. ‘Dobby is only wanting to wish Harry_Potter potter “merry christmas” and bring him a present, sir! Harry_Potter potter did say Dobby could come and see him sometimes, sir!’ ‘it’s ok,’ said Harry_Potter, still breathing rather faster than usual, while his heart rate returned to normal. ‘just – just prod me or something in future, all right, don’t bend over me like that …’ Harry_Potter pulled back the hangings around his four-poster, took his glasses from his bedside table and put them on. his yell had awoken ron, Seamus_Finnigan, Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom. all of them were peering through the gaps in their own hangings, heavy eyed and tousle haired. ‘someone attacking you, Harry_Potter?’ Seamus_Finnigan asked sleepily. ‘no, it’s just Dobby,’ Harry_Potter muttered. ‘go back to sleep.’ ‘nah … presents!’ said Seamus_Finnigan, spotting the large pile at the foot of his bed. ron, Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom decided that now they were awake they might as well get down to some present-opening, too. Harry_Potter turned back to Dobby, who was now Stanley_Shunpikeding nervously next to Harry_Potter’s bed, still looking worried that he had upset Harry_Potter. there was a christmas bauble tied to the loop on top of his tea-cosy. ‘can Dobby give Harry_Potter potter his present?’ he squeaked tentatively. ‘’course you can,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘er … i’ve got something for you, too.’ it was a lie; he hadn’t bought anything for Dobby at all, but he quickly opened his trunk, and pulled out a particularly knobbly rolled-up pair of socks. they were his oldest and foulest, mustard yellow, and had once belonged to uncle Vernon_Dursley. the reason they were extra knobbly was that Harry_Potter had been using them to cushion his sneakoscope for over a year now. he pulled out the sneakoscope and handed the socks to Dobby, saying, ‘sorry, i forgot to wrap them …’ but Dobby was utterly delighted. ‘socks are Dobby’s favourite, favourite clothes, sir!’ he said, ripping off his odd ones and pulling on uncle Vernon_Dursley’s. ‘i has seven now, sir … but, sir …’ he said, his eyes widening, having pulled both socks up to their highest extent, so that they reached to the bottom of his shorts, ‘they has made a mistake in the shop, Harry_Potter potter, they is giving you two the same!’ ‘ah, no, Harry_Potter, how come you didn’t spot that!’ said ron, grinning over from his own bed, which was now strewn with wrapping paper. ‘tell you what, Dobby – here you go – take these two, and you can mix them up properly. and here’s your jumper.’ he threw Dobby a pair of violet socks he had just unwrapped, and the hand-knitted sweater mrs weasley had sent. Dobby looked quite overwhelmed. ‘sir is very kind!’ he squeaked, his eyes brimming with tears again, bowing deeply to ron. ‘Dobby knew sir must be a great wizard, for he is Harry_Potter potter’s greatest friend, but Dobby did not know that he was also as generous of spirit, as noble, as selfless –’ ‘they’re only socks,’ said ron, who had gone slightly pink around the ears, though looking rather pleased all the same. ‘wow, Harry_Potter –’ he had just opened Harry_Potter’s present, a chudley cannon hat. ‘cool!’ he jammed it onto his head, where it clashed horribly with his hair. Dobby now handed Harry_Potter a small package, which turned out to be – socks. ‘Dobby is making them himself, sir!’ theWinkysaid happily. ‘he is buying the wool out of his wages, sir!’ the left sock was bright red, and had a pattern of broomsticks upon it; the right sock was green, with a pattern of snitches. ‘they’re … they’re really … well, thanks, Dobby,’ said Harry_Potter, and he pulled them on, causing Dobby’s eyes to leak with happiness again. ‘Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making christmas dinner in the kitchens!’ said Dobby, and he hurried out of the dormitory, waving goodbye toRonald_Weasleyand the others as he passed. Harry_Potter’s other presents were much more satisfactory than Dobby’s odd socks – with the obvious exception of the dursleys’, which consisted of a single tissue, an all-time low – Harry_Potter supposed they, too, were remembering the ton-tongue toffee. Hermione_Granger had given Harry_Potter a book called quidditch teams of bRita_Skeeterin and ireland; ron, a bulging bag of Mundungus_Fletcherbombs; Sirius_Black, a handy penknife with attachments to unlock any lock and undo any knot; and Rubeus_Hagrid, a vast box of sweets including all Harry_Potter’s favourites – bertie bott’s every flavour beans, chocolate frogs, drooble’s best blowing gum and fizzing whizzbees. there was also, of course, mrs weasley’s usual package, including a new jumper (green, with a picture of a dragon on it – Harry_Potter supposed Charles_Weasley had told her all about the horntail) and a large quantity of home-made mince pies. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleymet up with Hermione_Granger in the common room, and they went down to breakfast together. they spent most of the morning in gryffindor tower, where everyone was enjoying their presents, then returned to the great hall for a magnificent lunch, which included at least a hundred turkeys and christmas puddings, and large piles of cribbages wizarding crackers. they went out into the grounds in the afternoon; the snow was untouched except for the deep channels made by the durmstrang and beauxbatons students on their way up to the castle. Hermione_Granger chose to watch Harry_Potter and the weasleys’ snowball fight rather than join in, and at five o’clock said she was going back upstairs to get ready for the ball. ‘what, you need three hours?’ said ron, looking at her incredulously, and paying for his lapse in concentration when a large snowball, thrown by George_Weasley, hit him hard on the side of the head. ‘who’re you going with?’ he yelled after Hermione_Granger, but she just waved, and disappeared up the stone steps into the castle. there was no christmas tea today, as the ball included a feast, so at seven o’clock, when it had become hard to aim properly, the others abandoned their snowball fight and trooped back to the common room. the Fat_Lady was sitting in her frame with her friend violet from downstairs, both of them extremely tipsy, empty boxes of chocolate liqueurs littering the bottom of her picture. ‘lairy fights, that’s the one!’ she giggled when they gave the password, and she swung forwards to let them inside. Harry_Potter, ron, Seamus_Finnigan, Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom changed into their dress robes up in their dormitory, all of them looking very self-conscious, but none as much as ron, who surveyed himself in the long mirror in the corner with an appalled look on his face. there was just no getting around the fact that his robes looked more like a dress than anything else. in a desperate attempt to make them look more manly, he used a severing charm on the ruff and cuffs. it worked fairly well; at least he was now lace-free, although he hadn’t done a very neat job, and the edges still looked depressingly frayed as they set off downstairs. ‘i still can’t work out how you two got the best-looking girls in the year,’ muttered Dean_Thomas. ‘animal magnetism,’ saidRonald_Weasleygloomily, pulling stray threads out of his cuffs. the common room looked strange, full of people wearing different colours instead of the usual mass of black. Parvati_Patil was waiting for Harry_Potter at the foot of the stairs. she looked very pretty indeed, in robes of shocking pink, with her long dark plait braided with gold, and gold bracelets glimmering at her wrists. Harry_Potter was relieved to see that she wasn’t giggling. ‘you – er – look nice,’ he said awkwardly. ‘thanks,’ she said. ‘Padma_Patil’s going to meet you in the entrance hall,’ she added to ron. ‘right,’ said ron, looking around. ‘where’s Hermione_Granger?’ Parvati_Patil shrugged. ‘shall we go down, then, Harry_Potter?’ ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, wishing he could just stay in the common room. Fred_Weasley winked at Harry_Potter as he passed him on the way out of the portrait hole. the entrance hall was packed with students too, all milling around waiting for eight o’clock, when the doors to the great hall would be thrown open. those people who were meeting partners from different houses were edging through the crowd, trying to find each other. Parvati_Patil found her sister Padma_Patil and led her over to Harry_Potter and ron. ‘hi,’ said Padma_Patil, who was looking just as pretty as Parvati_Patil in robes of bright turquoise. she didn’t look too enthusiastic about havingRonald_Weasleyas a partner, though; her dark eyes lingered on the frayed neck and sleeves of his dress robes as she looked him up and down. ‘hi,’ said ron, not looking at her, but staring around at the crowd. ‘oh, no …’ he bent his knees slightly to hide behind Harry_Potter, because Fleur_Delacour delacour was passing, looking stunning in robes of silver-grey satin, and accompanied by the ravenclaw quidditch captain, Roger_Davies davies. when they had disappeared,Ronald_Weasleystood straight again and stared over the heads of the crowd. ‘where is Hermione_Granger?’ he said again. a group of slytherins came up the steps from their Mundungus_Fletchereon common room. malfoy was in front; he was wearing dress robes of black velvet with a high collar, which in Harry_Potter’s opinion made him look like a vicar. Pansy_Parkinson parkinson was clutching malfoy’s arm, in very frilly robes of pale pink. crabbe and Goyle were both wearing green; they resembled moss-coloured boulders, and neither of them, Harry_Potter was pleased to see, had managed to find a partner. the oak front doors opened, and everyone turned to look as the durmstrang students entered with professor karkaroff. krum was at the front of the party, accompanied by a pretty girl in blue robes Harry_Potter didn’t know. over their heads he saw that an area of lawn right in front of the castle had been transformed into a sort of grotto full of fairy lights – meaning hundreds of actual living fairies were sitting in the rose bushes that had been conjured there, and fluttering over the statues of what seemed to be father christmas and his reindeer. then professor Minerva_McGonagall’s voice called, ‘champions over here, please!’ Parvati_Patil readjusted her bangles, beaming; she and Harry_Potter said ‘see you in a minute’ toRonald_Weasleyand Padma_Patil, and walked forwards, the chattering crowd parting to let them through. professor Minerva_McGonagall, who was wearing dress robes of red tartan, and had arranged a rather ugly wreath of thistles around the brim of her hat, told them to wait on one side of the doors while everyone else went inside; they were to enter the great hall in procession when the rest of the students had sat down. Fleur_Delacour delacour and Roger_Davies davies stationed themselves nearest the doors; davies looked so stunned by his good fortune in having Fleur_Delacour for a partner that he could hardly take his eyes off her. Cedric_Diggory andCho_Changwere close to Harry_Potter, too; he looked away from them so he wouldn’t have to talk to them. his eyes fell instead on the girl next to krum. his jaw dropped. it was Hermione_Granger. but she didn’t look like Hermione_Granger at all. she had done something with her hair; it was no longer bushy, but sleek and shiny, and twisted up into an elegant knot at the back of her head. she was wearing robes made of a floaty, periwinkle-blue material, and she was holding herself differently, somehow – or maybe it was merely the absence of the twenty or so books she usually had slung over her back. she was also smiling – rather nervously, it was true – but the reduction in the size of her front teeth was more noticeable than ever. Harry_Potter couldn’t underStanley_Shunpiked how he hadn’t spotted it before. ‘hi, Harry_Potter!’ she said. ‘hi, Parvati_Patil!’ Parvati_Patil was gazing at Hermione_Granger in unflattering disbelief. she wasn’t the only one, either; when the doors to the great hall opened, krum’s fan club from the library stalked past, throwing Hermione_Granger looks of deepest loathing. Pansy_Parkinson parkinson gaped at her as she walked by with malfoy, and even he didn’t seem to be able to find an insult to throw at her. ron, however, walked right past Hermione_Granger without looking at her. once everyone else was settled in the hall, professor Minerva_McGonagall told the champions and their partners to get in line in pairs, and follow her. they did so, and everyone in the great hall applauded as they entered and started walking up towards a large round table at the top of the hall, where the judges were sitting. the walls of the hall had all been covered in sparkling silver frost, with hundreds of garlands of mistletoe and ivy crossing the starry black ceiling. the house tables had vanished; instead, there were about a hundred smaller, lantern-lit ones, each seating about a dozen people. Harry_Potter concentrated on not tripping over his feet. Parvati_Patil seemed to be enjoying herself; she was beaming around at everybody, steering Harry_Potter so forcefully that he felt as though he was a show dog she was putting through its paces. he caught sight ofRonald_Weasleyand Padma_Patil as he neared the top table.Ronald_Weasleywas watching Hermione_Granger pass with narrowed eyes. Padma_Patil was looking sulky. Albus_Dumbledore smiled happily as the champions approached the top table but karkaroff wore an expression remarkably like ron’s as he watched krum and Hermione_Granger draw nearer. Ludovic_Bagman bagman, tonight in robes of bright purple with large yellow stars, was clapping as enthusiastically as any of the students; and madame maxime, who had changed her usual uniform of black satin for a flowing gown of Lavender_Brown silk, was applauding them politely. but mr crouch, Harry_Potter suddenly realised, was not there. the fifth seat at the table was occupied by Percy_Weasley weasley. when the champions and their partners reached the table, Percy_Weasley drew out the empty chair beside him, staring pointedly at Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter took the hint and sat down next to Percy_Weasley, who was wearing brand-new, navy-blue dress robes, and an expression of great smugness. ‘i’ve been promoted,’ Percy_Weasley said, before Harry_Potter could even ask, and from his tone, he might have been announcing his election as supreme ruler of the universe. ‘i’m now mr crouch’s personal assiStanley_Shunpiket, and i’m here representing him.’ ‘why didn’t he come?’ Harry_Potter asked. he wasn’t looking forward to being lectured on cauldron bottoms all through dinner. ‘i’m afraid to say mr crouch isn’t well, not well at all. hasn’t been right since the world cup. hardly surprising – overwork. he’s not as young as he was – though still quite brilliant, of course, the mind remains as great as it ever was. but the world cup was a fiasco for the whole ministry, and then mr crouch suffered a huge personal shock with the misbehaviour of that house-Winkyof his, Winky or whatever she was called. naturally, he dismissed her immediately afterwards, but – well, as i say, he’s getting on, he needs looking after, and i think he’s found a definite drop in his home comforts since she left. and then we had the tournament to arrange, and the aftermath of the cup to deal with – that revolting skeeter woman buzzing around – no, poor man, he’s having a well-earned, quiet christmas. i’m just glad he knew he had someone he could rely upon to take his place.’ Harry_Potter wanted very much to ask whether mr crouch had stopped calling Percy_Weasley ‘weatherby’ yet, but resisted the temptation. there was no food as yet on the glittering golden plates, but small menus lying in front of each of them. Harry_Potter picked his up uncertainly, and looked around – there were no waiters. Albus_Dumbledore, however, looked carefully down his own menu, then said very clearly to his plate, ‘pork chops!’ and pork chops appeared. getting the idea, the rest of the table placed their orders with their plates, too. Harry_Potter glanced up at Hermione_Granger to see how she felt about this new and more complicated method of dining – surely it meant plenty of extra work for the house-elves? – but, for once, Hermione_Granger didn’t seem to be thinking about s.p.e.w. she was deep in talk with Viktor_Krum krum, and hardly seemed to notice what she was eating. it now occurred to Harry_Potter that he had never actually heard krum speak before, but he was certainly talking now, and very enthusiastically at that. ‘vell, ve have a castle also, not as big as this, nor as comfortable, i am thinking,’ he was telling Hermione_Granger. ‘ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for Magic_goblinal purposes. but ve have grounds larger even than these – though in vinter, ve have very little daylight, so ve are not enjoying them. but in summer ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the mountains –’ ‘now, now, Viktor_Krum!’ said karkaroff, with a laugh that didn’t reach his cold eyes. ‘don’t go giving away anything else, now, or your charming friend will know exactly where to find us!’ Albus_Dumbledore smiled, his eyes twinkling. ‘Igor_Karkaroff, all this secrecy … one would almost think you didn’t want visitors.’ ‘well, Albus_Dumbledore,’ said karkaroff, displaying his yellowing teeth to their fullest extent, ‘we are all protective of our private domains, are we not? do we not jealously guard the halls of learning that have been entrusted to us? are we not right to be proud that we alone know our school’s secrets, and right to protect them?’ ‘oh, i would never dream of assuming i know all hogwarts’ secrets, Igor_Karkaroff,’ said Albus_Dumbledore amicably. ‘only this morning, for inStanley_Shunpikece, i took a wrong turning on the way to the bathroom and found myself in a beautifully proportioned room i have never seen before, containing a really rather magnificent collection of chamberpots. when i went back to investigate more closely, i discovered that the room had vanished. but i must keep an eye out for it. possibly it is only accessible at five thirty in the morning. or it may only appear at the quarter moon – or when the seeker has an exceptionally full bladder.’ Harry_Potter snorted into his plate of goulash. Percy_Weasley frowned, but Harry_Potter could have sworn Albus_Dumbledore had given him a very small wink. meanwhile Fleur_Delacour delacour was criticising the hogwarts decorations to Roger_Davies davies. ‘zis is nothing,’ she said dismissively, looking around at the sparkling walls of the great hall. ‘at ze palace of beauxbatons, we ’ave ice sculptures all around ze dining chamber at chreestmas. zey do not melt, of course … zey are like ’uge statues of diamond, glittering around ze place. and ze food is seemply superb. and we ’ave choirs of wood-nymphs, ’oo serenade us as we eat. we ’ave none of zis ugly armour in ze ’alls, and eef a poltergeist ever entaired into beauxbatons, ’e would be expelled like zat.’ she slapped her hand onto the table impatiently. Roger_Davies davies was watching her talk with a very dazed look on his face, and he kept missing his mouth with his fork. Harry_Potter had the impression that davies was too busy staring at Fleur_Delacour to take in a word she was saying. ‘absolutely right,’ he said quickly, slapping his own hand down on the table in imitation of Fleur_Delacour. ‘like that. yeah.’ Harry_Potter looked around the hall. Rubeus_Hagrid was sitting at one of the other staff tables; he was back in his horrible hairy brown suit, and gazing up at the top table. Harry_Potter saw him give a small wave and, looking around, saw madame maxime return it, her opals glittering in the candlelight. Hermione_Granger was now teaching krum to say her name properly; he kept calling her ‘Hermione_Granger-own’. ‘her – my – oh – nee,’ she said, slowly and clearly. ‘herm – own – ninny.’ ‘close enough,’ she said, catching Harry_Potter’s eye and grinning. when all the food had been consumed, Albus_Dumbledore stood up and asked the students to do the same. then, at a wave of his wand, the tables zoomed back along the walls, leaving the floor clear, and then he conjured a raised platform into existence along the right-hand wall. a set of drums, several guitars, a lute, a cello and some bagpipes were set upon it. the weird sisters now trooped up onto the stage to wildly enthusiastic applause; they were all extremely hairy, and dressed in black robes that had been artfully ripped and torn. they picked up their instruments, and Harry_Potter, who had been so interested in watching them that he had almost forgotten what was coming, suddenly realised that the lanterns on all the other tables had gone out, and that the other champions and their partners were Stanley_Shunpikeding up. ‘come on!’ Parvati_Patil hissed. ‘we’re supposed to dance!’ Harry_Potter tripped over his dress robes as he stood up. the weird sisters struck up a slow, mournful tune; Harry_Potter walked onto the brightly lit dance floor, carefully avoiding catching anyone’s eye (he could see Seamus_Finnigan and Dean_Thomas waving at him and sniggering), and next moment, Parvati_Patil had seized his hands, placed one around her waist, and was holding the other tightly in hers. it wasn’t as bad as it could have been, Harry_Potter thought, revolving slowly on the spot (Parvati_Patil was steering). he kept his eyes fixed over the heads of the watching people, and very soon many of them, too, had come onto the dance floor, so that the champions were no longer the centre of attention. Neville_Longbottom and Ginevra_Weasley were dancing nearby – he could see Ginevra_Weasley wincing frequently as Neville_Longbottom trod on her feet – and Albus_Dumbledore was waltzing with madame maxime. he was so dwarfed by her that the top of his pointed hat barely tickled her chin; however, she moved very gracefully for a woman so large. Alastor_Moody moody was doing an extremely ungainly two-step with professor sinistra, who was nervously avoiding his wooden leg. ‘nice socks, potter,’ moody growled as he passed, his Magic_goblinal eye staring through Harry_Potter’s robes. ‘oh – yeah, Dobby the house-elf knitted them for me,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning. ‘he is so creepy!’ Parvati_Patil whispered, as moody clunked away. ‘i don’t think that eye should be allowed!’ Harry_Potter heard the final, quavering note from the bagpipe with relief. the weird sisters stopped playing, applause filled the hall once more, and Harry_Potter let go of Parvati_Patil at once. ‘let’s sit down, shall we?’ ‘oh – but – this is a really good one!’ Parvati_Patil said, as the weird sisters struck up a new song, which was much faster. ‘no, i don’t like it,’ Harry_Potter lied, and he led her away from the dance floor, past Fred_Weasley and Angelina_Johnson, who were dancing so exuberantly that people around them were backing away for fear of injury, and over to the table whereRonald_Weasleyand Padma_Patil were sitting. ‘how’s it going?’ Harry_Potter asked ron, sitting down and opening a bottle of butterbeer.Ronald_Weasleydidn’t answer. he was glaring at Hermione_Granger and krum, who were dancing nearby. Padma_Patil was sitting with her arms and legs crossed, one foot jiggling in time to the music. every now and then she threw a disgruntled look at ron, who was completely ignoring her. Parvati_Patil sat down on Harry_Potter’s other side, crossed her arms and legs too, and within minutes, was asked to dance by a boy from beauxbatons. ‘you don’t mind, do you, Harry_Potter?’ Parvati_Patil said. ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter, who was now watchingCho_Changand Cedric_Diggory. ‘oh, never mind,’ snapped Parvati_Patil, and she went off with the boy from beauxbatons. when the song ended, she did not return. Hermione_Granger came over and sat down in Parvati_Patil’s empty chair. she was a bit pink in the face from dancing. ‘hi,’ said Harry_Potter.Ronald_Weasleydidn’t say anything. ‘it’s hot, isn’t it?’ said Hermione_Granger, fanning herself with her hand. ‘Viktor_Krum’s just gone to get some drinks.’Ronald_Weasleygave her a withering look. ‘Viktor_Krum?’ he said. ‘hasn’t he asked you to call him Viktor_Krum yet?’ Hermione_Granger looked at him in surprise. ‘what’s up with you?’ she said. ‘if you don’t know,’ saidRonald_Weasleyscathingly, ‘i’m not going to tell you.’ Hermione_Granger stared at him, then at Harry_Potter, who shrugged. ‘ron, what –?’ ‘he’s from durmstrang!’ spat ron. ‘he’s competing against Harry_Potter! against hogwarts! you – you’re –’Ronald_Weasleywas obviously casting around for words strong enough to describe Hermione_Granger’s crime, ‘fraternising with the enemy, that’s what you’re doing!’ Hermione_Granger’s mouth fell open. ‘don’t be so stupid!’ she said after a moment. ‘the enemy! honestly – who was the one who was all excited when they saw him arrive? who was the one who wanted his autograph? who’s got a model of him up in their dormitory?’Ronald_Weasleychose to ignore this. ‘i s’pose he asked you to come with him while you were both in the library?’ ‘yes, he did,’ said Hermione_Granger, the pink patches on her cheeks glowing more brightly. ‘so what?’ ‘what happened – trying to get him to join spew, were you?’ ‘no, i wasn’t! if you really want to know, he – he said he’d been coming up to the library every day to try and talk to me, but he hadn’t been able to pluck up the courage!’ Hermione_Granger said this very quickly, and blushed so deeply that she was the same colour as Parvati_Patil’s robes. ‘yeah, well – that’s his story,’ saidRonald_Weasleynastily. ‘and what’s that supposed to mean?’ ‘obvious, isn’t it? he’s karkaroff’s student, isn’t he? he knows who you hang around with … he’s just trying to get closer to Harry_Potter – get inside information on him – or get near enough to jinx him –’ Hermione_Granger looked as thoughRonald_Weasleyhad slapped her. when she spoke, her voice quivered. ‘for your information, he hasn’t asked me one single thing about Harry_Potter, not one –’Ronald_Weasleychanged tack at the speed of light. ‘then he’s hoping you’ll help him find out what his egg means! i suppose you’ve been putting your heads together during those cosy little library sessions –’ ‘i’d never help him work out that egg!’ said Hermione_Granger, looking outraged. ‘never. how could you say something like that – i want Harry_Potter to win the tournament. Harry_Potter knows that, don’t you, Harry_Potter?’ ‘you’ve got a funny way of showing it,’ sneered ron. ‘this whole tournament’s supposed to be about getting to know foreign wizards and making friends with them!’ said Hermione_Granger shrilly. ‘no, it isn’t!’ shouted ron. ‘it’s about winning!’ people were starting to stare at them. ‘ron,’ said Harry_Potter quietly, ‘i haven’t got a problem with Hermione_Granger coming with krum –’ butRonald_Weasleyignored Harry_Potter too. ‘why don’t you go and find Viktor_Krum, he’ll be wondering where you are,’ said ron. ‘don’t call him Viktor_Krum!’ Hermione_Granger jumped to her feet, and stormed off across the dance floor, disappearing into the crowd.Ronald_Weasleywatched her go with a mixture of anger and satisfaction on his face. ‘are you going to ask me to dance at all?’ Padma_Patil asked him. ‘no,’ said ron, still glaring after Hermione_Granger. ‘fine,’ snapped Padma_Patil, and she got up and went to join Parvati_Patil and the beauxbatons boy, who conjured up one of his friends to join them so fast that Harry_Potter could have sworn he had zoomed him there by a summoning charm. ‘vare is herm-own-ninny?’ said a voice. krum had just arrived at their table clutching two butterbeers. ‘no idea,’ saidRonald_Weasleymulishly, looking up at him. ‘lost her, have you?’ krum was looking surly again. ‘vell, if you see her, tell her i haff drinks,’ he said, and he slouched off. ‘made friends with Viktor_Krum krum, have you, ron?’ Percy_Weasley had bustled over, rubbing his hands together and looking extremely pompous. ‘excellent! that’s the whole point, you know – international Magic_goblinal co-operation!’ to Harry_Potter’s annoyance, Percy_Weasley promptly took Padma_Patil’s vacated seat. the top table was now empty; professor Albus_Dumbledore was dancing with professor sprout; Ludovic_Bagman bagman, with professor Minerva_McGonagall; madame maxime and Rubeus_Hagrid were cutting a wide path around the dance floor as they waltzed through the students and karkaroff was nowhere to be seen. when the next song ended, everybody applauded once more, and Harry_Potter saw Ludovic_Bagman bagman kiss professor Minerva_McGonagall’s hand and make his way back through the crowds, at which point Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley accosted him. ‘what do they think they’re doing, annoying senior ministry members?’ Percy_Weasley hissed, watching Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley suspiciously. ‘ no respect …’ Ludovic_Bagman bagman shook off Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley fairly quickly, however, and, spotting Harry_Potter, waved and came over to their table. ‘i Hope_Howell my brothers weren’t bothering you, mr bagman?’ said Percy_Weasley at once. ‘what? oh, not at all, not at all!’ said bagman. ‘no, they were just telling me a bit more about those fake wands of theirs. wondering if i could advise them on the marketing. i’ve promised to put them in touch with a couple of contacts of mine at zonko’s joke shop …’ Percy_Weasley didn’t look happy about this at all, and Harry_Potter was prepared to bet he would be rushing to tell mrs weasley about it the moment he got home. apparently Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s plans had grown even more ambitious lately, if they were hoping to sell to the public. bagman opened his mouth to ask Harry_Potter something, but Percy_Weasley diverted him. ‘how do you feel the tournament’s going, mr bagman? our department’s quite satisfied – the hitch with the goblet of fire’ – he glanced at Harry_Potter – ‘was a little unfortunate, of course, but it seems to have gone very smoothly since, don’t you think?’ ‘oh, yes,’ bagman said cheerfully, ‘it’s all been enormous fun. how’s old Bartemius_Crouch_Senior doing? shame he couldn’t come.’ ‘oh, i’m sure mr crouch will be up and about in no time,’ said Percy_Weasley importantly, ‘but in the meantime, i’m more than willing to take up the slack. of course, it’s not all attending balls –’ he laughed airily – ‘oh, no, i’ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have cropped up in his absence – you heard ali bashir was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets into the country? and then we’ve been trying to persuade the transylvanians to sign the international ban on duelling, i’ve got a meeting with their head of Magic_goblinal co-operation in the new year –’ ‘let’s go for a walk,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered to Harry_Potter, ‘get away from Percy_Weasley …’ pretending they wanted more drinks, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyleft the table, edged around the dance floor and slipped out into the entrance hall. the front doors stood open, and the fluttering fairy lights in the rose garden winked and twinkled as they went down the front steps, where they found themselves surrounded by bushes, winding ornamental paths, and large stone statues. Harry_Potter could hear splashing water, which sounded like a fountain. here and there, people were sitting on carved benches. he andRonald_Weasleyset off along one of the winding paths through the rose bushes, but they had gone only a short way when they heard an unpleasantly familiar voice. ‘… don’t see what there is to fuss about, Igor_Karkaroff.’ ‘Severus_Snape, you cannot pretend this isn’t happening!’ karkaroff’s voice sounded anxious and hushed, as though keen not to be overheard. ‘it’s been getting clearer and clearer for months, i am becoming seriously concerned, i can’t deny it –’ ‘then flee,’ said snape’s voice curtly. ‘flee, i will make your excuses. i, however, am remaining at hogwarts.’ snape and karkaroff came around the corner. snape had his wand out, and was blasting rose bushes apart, his expression most ill-natured. squeals issued from many of the bushes, and dark shapes emerged from them. ‘ten points from hufflepuff, Fawcett!’ snape snarled, as a girl ran past him. ‘and ten points from ravenclaw, too, Stebbins_(1990s_Hogwarts_student)!’ as a boy went rushing after her. ‘and what are you two doing?’ he added, catching sight of Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyon the path ahead. karkaroff, Harry_Potter saw, looked slightly discomposed to see them Stanley_Shunpikeding there. his hand went nervously to his goatee, and he began winding it around his finger again. ‘we’re walking,’Ronald_Weasleytold snape shortly. ‘not against the law, is it?’ ‘keep walking, then!’ snape snarled, and he brushed past them, his long black cloak William_Weasleyowing out behind him. karkaroff hurried away after snape. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleycontinued down the path. ‘what’s got karkaroff all worried?’Ronald_Weasleymuttered. ‘and since when have he and snape been on first-name terms?’ said Harry_Potter slowly. they had reached a large stone reindeer now, over which they could see the sparkling jets of a Tall_goblin fountain. the shadowy outlines of two enormous people were visible on a stone bench, watching the water in the moonlight. and then Harry_Potter heard Rubeus_Hagrid speak. ‘momen’ i saw yeh, i knew,’ he was saying, in an oddly husky voice. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyfroze. this didn’t sound like the sort of scene they ought to walk in on, somehow … Harry_Potter looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur_Delacour delacour and Roger_Davies davies Stanley_Shunpikeding half-concealed in a rose bush nearby. he tappedRonald_Weasleyon the shoulder and jerked his head towards them, meaning that they could easily sneak off that way without being noticed (Fleur_Delacour and davies looked very busy to Harry_Potter) but ron, eyes widening in horror at the sight of Fleur_Delacour, shook his head vIgor_Karkaroffously, and pulled Harry_Potter deeper into the shadows behind the reindeer. ‘what did you know, ’agrid?’ said madame maxime, a distinct purr in her low voice. Harry_Potter definitely didn’t want to listen to this; he knew Rubeus_Hagrid would hate to be overheard in a situation like this (he certainly would have done) – if it had been possible he would have put his fingers in his ears and hummed loudly, but that wasn’t really an option. instead he tried to interest himself in a beetle crawling along the stone reindeer’s back, but the beetle just wasn’t interesting enough to block out Rubeus_Hagrid’s next words. ‘i jus’ knew … knew you were like me … was it yer mother or yer father?’ ‘i – i don’t know what you mean, ’agrid …’ ‘it was my mother,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid quietly. ‘she was one o’ the las’ ones in bRita_Skeeterin. ’course, i can’ remember her too well … she left, see. when i was abou’ three. she wasn’ really the maternal sort. well … it’s not in their natures, is it? dunno what happened to her … might be dead fer all i know …’ madame maxime didn’t say anything. and Harry_Potter, in spite of himself, took his eyes off the beetle, and looked over the top of the reindeer’s antlers, listening … he had never heard Rubeus_Hagrid talk about his childhood before. ‘me dad was broken-hearted when she wen’. tiny little bloke, my dad was. by the time i was six i could lift him up an’ put him on top o’ the dresser if he annoyed me. used ter make him laugh …’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s deep voice broke. madame maxime was listening, motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain. ‘dad raised me … but he died, o’ course, jus’ after i started school. sorta had ter make me own way after that. Albus_Dumbledore was a real help, mind. very kind ter me, he was …’ Rubeus_Hagrid pulled out a large, spotted silk handkerchief and blew his nose heavily. ‘so … anyway … enough abou’ me. what about you? which side you got it on?’ but madame maxime had suddenly got to her feet. ‘it is chilly,’ she said – but whatever the weather was doing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice. ‘i think i will go in now.’ ‘eh?’ said Rubeus_Hagrid blankly. ‘no, don’ go! i’ve – i’ve never met another one before!’ ‘anuzzer what, precisely?’ said madame maxime, her tone icy. Harry_Potter could have told Rubeus_Hagrid it was best not to answer; he stood there in the shadows, gritting his teeth, hoping against Hope_Howell he wouldn’t – but it was no good. ‘another half-giant, o’ course!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘’ow dare you!’ shrieked madame maxime. her voice exploded through the peaceful night air like a foghorn; behind him, Harry_Potter heard Fleur_Delacour and Roger_Davies fall out of their rose bush. ‘i ’ave nevair been more insulted in my life! ’alf-giant? moi? i ’ave – i ’ave big bones!’ she stormed away; great multi-coloured swarms of fairies rose into the air as she passed, angrily pushing aside bushes. Rubeus_Hagrid was still sitting on the bench, staring after her. it was much too dark to make out his expression. then, after about a minute, he stood up and strode away, not back to the castle, but off out into the dark grounds in the direction of his cabin. ‘c’mon,’ Harry_Potter said, very quietly to ron. ‘let’s go …’ butRonald_Weasleydidn’t move. ‘what’s up?’ said Harry_Potter, looking at him.Ronald_Weasleylooked around at Harry_Potter, his expression very serious indeed. ‘did you know?’ he whispered. ‘about Rubeus_Hagrid being half-giant?’ ‘no,’ Harry_Potter said, shrugging. ‘so what?’ he knew immediately from the lookRonald_Weasleywas giving him, that he was once again revealing his ignorance of the wizarding world. brought up by the dursleys, there were many things that wizards took for granted that were revelations to Harry_Potter, but these surprises had become fewer as he had moved up the school. now, however, he could tell that most wizards would not have said ‘so what?’ upon finding out that one of their friends had a giantess for a mother. ‘i’ll explain inside,’ saidRonald_Weasleyquietly. ‘c’mon …’ Fleur_Delacour and Roger_Davies davies had disappeared, probably into a more private clump of bushes. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyreturned to the great hall. Parvati_Patil and Padma_Patil were now sitting at a diStanley_Shunpiket table with a whole crowd of beauxbatons boys, and Hermione_Granger was once more dancing with krum. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleysat down at a table far removed from the dance floor. ‘so?’ Harry_Potter prompted ron. ‘what’s the problem with giants?’ ‘well, they’re … they’re …’Ronald_Weasleystruggled for words, ‘not very nice,’ he finished lamely. ‘who cares?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘there’s nothing wrong with Rubeus_Hagrid!’ ‘i know there isn’t, but … blimey, no wonder he keeps it quiet,’Ronald_Weasleysaid, shaking his head. ‘i always thought he’d got in the way of a bad engorgement charm when he was a kid or something. didn’t like to mention it …’ ‘but what’s it matter if his mother was a giantess?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well … no one who knows him will care, ’cos they’ll know he’s not dangerous,’ said ron, slowly. ‘but … Harry_Potter, they’re just vicious, giants. it’s like Rubeus_Hagrid said, it’s in their natures, they’re like trolls … they just like killing, everyone knows that. there aren’t any left in bRita_Skeeterin now, though.’ ‘what happened to them?’ ‘well, they were dying out anyway, and then loads got themselves killed by aurors. there’re supposed to be giants abroad, though … they hide out in mountains mostly …’ ‘i don’t know who maxime thinks she’s kidding,’ Harry_Potter said, watching madame maxime sitting alone at the judges’ table, looking very sombre. ‘if Rubeus_Hagrid’s half-giant, she definitely is. big bones … the only thing that’s got bigger bones than her is a dinosaur.’ Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyspent the rest of the ball discussing giants in their corner, neither of them having any inclination to dance. Harry_Potter tried not to watchCho_Changand Cedric_Diggory; it gave him a strong desire to kick something. when the weird sisters finished playing at midnight, everyone gave them a last, loud round of applause, and started to wend their way into the entrance hall. many people were expressing the wish that the ball could have gone on longer, but Harry_Potter was perfectly happy to be going to bed; as far as he was concerned, the evening hadn’t been much fun. out in the entrance hall, Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleysaw Hermione_Granger saying goodnight to krum before he went back to the durmstrang ship. she gaveRonald_Weasleya very cold look, and swept past him up the marble staircase without speaking. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyfollowed her, but halfway up the marble staircase, Harry_Potter heard someone calling him. ‘hey – Harry_Potter!’ it was Cedric_Diggory diggory. Harry_Potter could seeCho_Changwaiting for him in the entrance hall below. ‘yeah?’ said Harry_Potter coldly, as Cedric_Diggory ran up the stairs towards him. Cedric_Diggory looked as though he didn’t want to say whatever it was in front of ron, who shrugged, looking bad-tempered, and continued to climb the stairs. ‘listen …’ Cedric_Diggory lowered his voice asRonald_Weasleydisappeared. ‘i owe you one for telling me about the dragons. you know that golden egg? does yours wail when you open it?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well … take a bath, ok?’ ‘what?’ ‘take a bath, and – er – take the egg with you, and – er – just mull things over in the hot water. it’ll help you think … trust me.’ Harry_Potter stared at him. ‘tell you what,’ Cedric_Diggory said, ‘use the prefects’ bathroom. fourth door to the left of that statue of boris the bewildered on the fifth floor. password’s pine- fresh. gotta go … want to say goodnight –’ he grinned at Harry_Potter again and hurried back down the stairs to cho. Harry_Potter walked back to gryffindor tower alone. that had been extremely strange advice. why would a bath help him to work out what the Wailing_Widow egg meant? was Cedric_Diggory pulling his leg? was he trying to make Harry_Potter look a fool, soCho_Changwould like Cedric_Diggory even more by comparison? the Fat_Lady and her friend vi were snoozing in the picture over the portrait hole. Harry_Potter had to yell ‘fairy lights!’ before he woke them up, and when he did, they were extremely irRita_Skeeterted. he climbed into the common room, and foundRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger having a blazing row. Stanley_Shunpikeding ten feet apart, they were bellowing at each other, each scarlet in the face. ‘well, if you don’t like it, you know what the solution is, don’t you?’ yelled Hermione_Granger; her hair was coming down out of its elegant bun now, and her face was screwed up in anger. ‘oh yeah?’Ronald_Weasleyyelled back. ‘what’s that?’ ‘next time there’s a ball, ask me before someone else does, and not as a last resort!’Ronald_Weasleymouthed soundlessly like a goldfish out of water as Hermione_Granger turned on her heel and stormed up the girls’ staircase to bed.Ronald_Weasleyturned to look at Harry_Potter. ‘well,’ he spluttered, looking thunderstruck, ‘well – that just proves – completely missed the point –’ Harry_Potter didn’t say anything. he liked being back on speaking terms withRonald_Weasleytoo much to speak his mind right now – but he somehow thought that Hermione_Granger had got the point much better thanRonald_Weasleyhad. 