— chapter thirty-two — flesh, blood and bone Harry_Potter felt his feet slam into the ground; his injured leg gave way and he fell forwards; his hand let go of the triwizard cup at last. he raised his head. ‘where are we?’ he said. Cedric_Diggory shook his head. he got up, pulled Harry_Potter to his feet, and they looked around. they had left the hogwarts grounds completely; they had obviously travelled Miles_Bletchley – perhaps hundreds of Miles_Bletchley – for even the mountains surrounding the castle were gone. they were Stanley_Shunpikeding instead in a dark and overgrown graveyard; the black outline of a small church was visible beyond a large yew tree to their right. a hill rose above them to their left. Harry_Potter could just make out the outline of a fine old house on the hillside. Cedric_Diggory looked down at the triwizard cup and then up at Harry_Potter. ‘did anyone tell you the cup was a portkey?’ he asked. ‘nope,’ said Harry_Potter. he was looking around the graveyard. it was completely silent, and slightly eerie. ‘is this supposed to be part of the task?’ ‘i dunno,’ said Cedric_Diggory. he sounded slightly nervous. ‘wands out, d’you reckon?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, glad that Cedric_Diggory had made the suggestion rather than him. they pulled out their wands. Harry_Potter kept looking around him. he had, yet again, the strange feeling that they were being watched. ‘someone’s coming,’ he said suddenly. squinting tensely through the darkness, they watched the figure drawing nearer, walking steadily towards them between the graves. Harry_Potter couldn’t make out a face; but from the way it was walking, and holding its arms, he could tell that it was carrying something. whoever they were, they were short, and wearing a hooded cloak pulled up over their head to obscure their face. and – several paces nearer, the space between them closing all the time – he saw that the thing in the person’s arms looked like a baby … or was it merely    a bundle of robes? Harry_Potter lowered his wand slightly, and glanced sideways at Cedric_Diggory. Cedric_Diggory shot him a quizzical look. they both turned back to watch the approaching figure. it stopped beside a towering marble headstone, only six feet from them. for a second, Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory and the short figure simply looked at each other. and then, without warning, Harry_Potter’s scar exploded with pain. it was agony such as he had never felt in all his life; his wand slipped from his fingers as he put his hands over his face; his knees buckled; he was on the ground and he could see nothing at all, his head was about to split open. from far away, above his head, he heard a high, cold voice say, ‘kill the spare.’ a swishing noise and a second voice, which screeched the words to the night: ‘avada kedavra!’ a blast of green light blazed through Harry_Potter’s eyelids, and he heard something heavy fall to the ground beside him; the pain in his scar reached such a pitch that he retched, and then it diminished; terrified of what he was about to see, he opened his stinging eyes. Cedric_Diggory was lying spread-eagled on the ground beside him. he was dead. for a second that contained an eternity, Harry_Potter stared into Cedric_Diggory’s face, at his open grey eyes, blank and expressionless as the windows of a deserted house, at his half-open mouth, which looked slightly surprised. and then, before Harry_Potter’s mind had accepted what he was seeing, before he could feel anything but numb disbelief, he felt himself being pulled to his feet. the short man in the cloak had put down his bundle, lit his wand, and was dragging Harry_Potter towards the marble headstone. Harry_Potter saw the name upon it flickering in the wand-light before he was forced around and slammed against it. Tom_Riddle the cloaked man was now conjuring tight cords around Harry_Potter, tying him from neck to ankles to the headstone. Harry_Potter could hear shallow, fast breathing from the depths of the hood; he struggled, and the man hit him – hit him with a hand that had a finger missing. and Harry_Potter realised who was under the hood. it was Peter_Pettigrew. ‘you!’ he gasped.   but Peter_Pettigrew, who had finished conjuring the ropes, did not reply; he was busy checking the tightness of the cords, his fingers trembling uncontrollably, fumbling over the knots. once sure that Harry_Potter was bound so tightly to the headstone that he couldn’t move an inch, Peter_Pettigrew drew a length of some black material from the inside of his cloak and stuffed it roughly into Harry_Potter’s mouth; then, without a word, he turned from Harry_Potter and hurried away. Harry_Potter couldn’t make a sound, nor could he see where Peter_Pettigrew had gone; he couldn’t turn his head to see beyond the headstone; he could see only what was right in front of him. Cedric_Diggory’s body was lying some twenty feet away. some way beyond him, glinting in the starlight, lay the triwizard cup. Harry_Potter’s wand was on the ground at his feet. the bundle of robes that Harry_Potter had thought was a baby was close by, at the foot of the grave. it seemed to be stirring fretfully. Harry_Potter watched it, and his scar seared with pain again … and he suddenly knew that he didn’t want to see what was in those robes … he didn’t want that bundle opened … he could hear noises at his feet. he looked down, and saw a gigantic snake slithering through the grass, circling the headstone where he was tied. Peter_Pettigrew’s fast, wheezy breathing was growing louder again. it sounded as though he was forcing something heavy across the ground. then he came back within Harry_Potter’s range of vision, and Harry_Potter saw him pushing a stone cauldron to the foot of the grave. it was full of what seemed to be water – Harry_Potter could hear it slopping around – and it was larger than any cauldron Harry_Potter had ever used; a great stone belly large enough for a full-grown man to sit in. the thing inside the bundle of robes on the ground was stirring more persistently, as though it was trying to free itself. now Peter_Pettigrew was busying himself at the bottom of the cauldron with a wand. suddenly there were crackling flames beneath it. the large snake slithered away into the darkness. the liquid in the cauldron seemed to heat very fast. the surface began not only to bubble, but also to send out fiery sparks, as though it was on fire. steam was thickening, blurring the outline of Peter_Pettigrew tending the fire. the movements beneath the cloak became more agitated. and Harry_Potter heard the high, cold voice again. ‘hurry!’ the whole surface of the water was alight with sparks now. it might have been encrusted with diamonds. ‘it is ready, master.’ ‘now …’ said the cold voice. Peter_Pettigrew pulled open the robes on the ground, revealing what was inside them, and Harry_Potter let out a yell that was strangled in the wad of material blocking his mouth. it was as though Peter_Pettigrew had flipped over a stone, and revealed something ugly, slimy and blind – but worse, a hundred times worse. the thing Peter_Pettigrew had been carrying had the shape of a crouched human child, except that Harry_Potter had never seen anything less like a child. it was hairless and scaly-looking, a dark, raw, reddish black. its arms and legs were thin and feeble, and its face – no child alive ever had a face like that – was flat and snake-like, with gleaming red eyes. the thing seemed almost helpless; it raised its thin arms, put them around Peter_Pettigrew’s neck, and Peter_Pettigrew lifted it. as he did so, his hood fell back, and Harry_Potter saw the look of revulsion on Peter_Pettigrew’s weak, pale face in the firelight as he carried the creature to the rim of the cauldron. for one moment, Harry_Potter saw the evil, flat face illuminated in the sparks dancing on the surface of the potion. and then Peter_Pettigrew lowered the creature into the cauldron; there was a hiss, and it vanished below the surface; Harry_Potter heard its frail body hit the bottom with a soft thud. let it drown, Harry_Potter thought, his scar burning almost past endurance, please … let it drown … Peter_Pettigrew was speaking. his voice shook, he seemed frightened beyond his wits. he raised his wand, closed his eyes, and spoke to the night. ‘bone of the father, unknowingly given, you will renew your son!’ the surface of the grave at Harry_Potter’s feet cracked. horrified, Harry_Potter watched as a fine trickle of dust rose into the air at Peter_Pettigrew’s command, and fell softly into the cauldron. the diamond surface of the water broke and hissed; it sent sparks in all directions, and turned a vivid, poisonous-looking blue. and now Peter_Pettigrew was whimpering. he pulled a long, thin, shining silver dagger from inside his robes. his voice broke into petrified sobs. ‘flesh – of the servant – w-willingly given – you will – revive – your master.’ he stretched his right hand out in front of him – the hand with the missing finger. he gripped the dagger very tightly in his left hand, and swung it upwards. Harry_Potter realised what Peter_Pettigrew was about to do a second before it happened – he closed his eyes as tightly as he could, but he could not block the scream that pierced the night, that went through Harry_Potter as though he had been stabbed with the dagger too. he heard something fall to the ground, heard Peter_Pettigrew’s anguished panting, then a sickening splash, as something was dropped into the cauldron. Harry_Potter couldn’t bear to look … but the potion had turned a burning red, the light of it shone through Harry_Potter’s closed eyelids … Peter_Pettigrew was gasping and moaning with agony. not until Harry_Potter felt Peter_Pettigrew’s anguished breath on his face did he realise that Peter_Pettigrew was right in front of him. ‘b-blood of the enemy … forcibly taken … you will … resurrect your foe.’ Harry_Potter could do nothing to prevent it, he was tied too tightly … squinting down, struggling Hope_Howelllessly at the ropes binding him, he saw the shining silver dagger shaking in Peter_Pettigrew’s remaining hand. he felt its point penetrate the crook of his right arm, and blood seeping down the sleeve of his torn robes. Peter_Pettigrew, still panting with pain, fumbled in his pocket for a glass phial and held it to Harry_Potter’s cut, so that a dribble of blood fell into it. he staggered back to the cauldron with Harry_Potter’s blood. he poured it inside. the liquid within turned, inStanley_Shunpiketly, a blinding white. Peter_Pettigrew, his job done, dropped to his knees beside the cauldron, then slumped sideways and lay on the ground, cradling the bleeding stump of his arm, gasping and sobbing. the cauldron was simmering, sending its diamond sparks in all directions, so blindingly bright that it turned all else to velvety blackness. nothing happened … let it have drowned, Harry_Potter thought, let it have gone wrong … and then, suddenly, the sparks emanating from the cauldron were extinguished. a surge of white steam William_Weasleyowed thickly from the cauldron instead, obliterating everything in front of Harry_Potter, so that he couldn’t see Peter_Pettigrew or Cedric_Diggory or anything but vapour hanging in the air … it’s gone wrong, he thought … it’s drowned … please … please let it be dead …. but then, through the mist in front of him, he saw, with an icy surge of terror, the dark outline of a man, Tall_goblin and skeleTall_gobliny thin, rising slowly from inside the cauldron. ‘robe me,’ said the high, cold voice from behind the steam, and Peter_Pettigrew, sobbing and moaning, still cradling his mutilated arm, scrambled to pick up the black robes from the ground, got to his feet, reached up, and pulled them one-handed over his master’s head. the thin man stepped out of the cauldron, staring at Harry_Potter … and Harry_Potter stared back into the face that had haunted his nightmares for three years. whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes, and a nose that was as flat as a snake’s, with slits for nostrils … lord voldemort had risen again. 