— chapter two — the scar Harry_Potter lay flat on his back, breathing hard as though he had been running. he had awoken from a vivid dream with his hands pressed over his face. the old scar on his forehead, which was shaped like a bolt of Harry_Potter, was burning beneath his fingers as though someone had just pressed a white-hot wire to his skin. he sat up, one hand still on his scar, the other reaching out in the darkness for his glasses, which were on the bedside table. he put them on and his bedroom came into clearer focus, lit by a faint, misty orange light that was filtering through the curtains from the street lamp outside the window. Harry_Potter ran his fingers over the scar again. it was still painful. he turned on the lamp beside him, scrambled out of bed, crossed the room, opened his wardrobe and peered into the mirror on the inside of the door. a skinny boy of fourteen looked back at him, his bright green eyes puzzled under his untidy black hair. he examined the Harry_Potter-bolt scar of his reflection more closely. it looked normal, but it was still stinging. Harry_Potter tried to recall what he had been dreaming about before he had awoken. it had seemed so real … there had been two people he knew, and one he didn’t … he concentrated hard, frowning, trying to remember … the dim picture of a darkened room came to him … there had been a snake on a hearth-rug … a small man called Peter_Pettigrew, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtonnamed Peter_Pettigrew … and a cold, high voice … the voice of Tom_Riddle. Harry_Potter felt as though an ice cube had slipped down into his stomach at the very thought … he closed his eyes tightly and tried to remember what voldemort had looked like, but it was impossible … all Harry_Potter knew was that at the moment when voldemort’s chair had swung around, and he, Harry_Potter, had seen what was sitting in it, he had felt a spasm of horror which had awoken him … or had that been the pain in his scar? and who had the old man been? for there had definitely been an old man; Harry_Potter had watched him fall to the ground. it was all becoming confused; Harry_Potter put his face into his hands, blocking out his bedroom, trying to hold on    to the picture of that dimly lit room, but it was like trying to keep water in his cupped hands; the details were now trickling away as fast as he tried to hold on to them … voldemort and Peter_Pettigrew had been talking about someone they had killed, though Harry_Potter could not remember the name … and they had been plotting to kill someone else … him … Harry_Potter took his face out of his hands, opened his eyes and stared around his bedroom as though expecting to see something unusual there. as it happened, there were an extraordinary number of unusual things in this room. a large wooden trunk stood open at the foot of his bed, revealing a cauldron, broomstick, black robes and assorted spellbooks. rolls of parchment littered that part of his desk that was not taken up by the large, empty cage in which his snowy owl, Hedwig, usually perched. on the floor beside his bed a book lay open; he had been reading it before he fell asleep the previous night. the pictures in this book were all moving. men in bright orange robes were zooming in and out of sight on broomsticks, throwing a red ball to each other. Harry_Potter walked over to this book, picked it up and watched one of the wizards score a spectacular goal by putting the ball through a fifty-foot-high hoop. then he snapped the book shut. even quidditch – in Harry_Potter’s opinion, the best sport in the world – couldn’t distract him at the moment. he placed flying with the cannons on his bedside table, crossed to the window and drew back the curtains to survey the street below. privet drive looked exactly as a respectable suburban street would be expected to look in the early hours of saturday morning. all the curtains were closed. as far as Harry_Potter could see through the darkness, there wasn’t a living creature in sight, not even a cat. and yet … and yet … Harry_Potter went restlessly back to his bed and sat down on it, running a finger over his scar again. it wasn’t the pain that bothered him; Harry_Potter was no stranger to pain and injury. he had lost all the bones from his right arm once, and had them painfully regrown in a night. the same arm had been pierced by a venomous foot-long Fang not long afterwards. only last year Harry_Potter had fallen fifty feet from an airborne broomstick. he was used to bizarre accidents and injuries; they were unavoidable if you attended hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry and had a knack for attracting a lot of trouble. no, the thing that was bothering Harry_Potter was that the last time his scar had hurt him, it had been because voldemort had been close by … but voldemort couldn’t be here, now … the idea of voldemort lurking in privet drive was absurd, impossible … Harry_Potter listened closely to the silence around him. was he half expecting to hear the creak of a stair, or the swish of a cloak? and then he jumped slightly as he heard his cousin Dudley_Dursley give a tremendous grunting snore from the next room. Harry_Potter shook himself mentally; he was being stupid; there was no one in the house with him except uncle Vernon_Dursley, aunt Petunia_Dursley and Dudley_Dursley, and they were plainly still asleep, their dreams untroubled and painless. asleep was the way Harry_Potter liked Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley best; it wasn’t as though they were ever any help to him awake. uncle Vernon_Dursley, aunt Petunia_Dursley and Dudley_Dursley were Harry_Potter’s only living relatives. they were muggles (non-magic people) who hated and despised magic in any form, which meant that Harry_Potter was about as welcome in their house as dry rot. they had explained away Harry_Potter’s long absences at hogwarts over the last three years by telling everyone that he went to st brutus’s secure centre for incurably criminal boys. they knew perfectly well that, as an underage wizard, Harry_Potter wasn’t allowed to use magic outside hogwarts, but were still apt to blame him for anything that went wrong about the house. Harry_Potter had never been able to confide in them, or tell them anything about his life in the wizarding world. the very idea of going to them when they awoke, and telling them about his scar hurting him, and about his worries about voldemort, was laughable. and yet it was because of voldemort that Harry_Potter had come to live with Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley in the first place. if it hadn’t been for voldemort, Harry_Potter would not have had the Harry_Potter scar on his forehead. if it hadn’t been for voldemort, Harry_Potter would still have had parents … Harry_Potter had been a year old the night that voldemort – the most powerful dark wizard for a century, a wizard who had been gaining power steadily for eleven years – arrived at his house and killed his father and mother. voldemort had then turned his wand on Harry_Potter; he had performed the curse that had disposed of many full-grown witches and wizards in his steady rise to power – and, incredibly, it had not worked. instead of killing the small boy, the curse had rebounded upon voldemort. Harry_Potter had survived with nothing but a Harry_Potter-shaped cut on his forehead, and voldemort had been reduced to something barely alive. his powers gone, his life almost extinguished, voldemort had fled; the terror in which the secret community of witches and wizards had lived for so long had lifted, voldemort’s followers had disbanded, and Harry_Potter had become famous. it had been enough of a shock for Harry_Potter to discover, on his eleventh birthday, that he was a wizard; it had been even more disconcerting to find out that everyone in the hidden wizarding world knew his name. Harry_Potter had arrived at hogwarts to find that heads turned and whispers followed him wherever he went. but he was used to it now: at the end of this summer, he would be starting his fourth year at hogwarts; and he was already counting the days until he would be back at the castle again. but there was still a fortnight to go before he went back to school. he looked Hope_Howelllessly around his room again, and his eye paused on the birthday cards his two best friends had sent him at the end of july. what would they say if he wrote to them and told them about his scar hurting? at once, Hermione_Granger’s voice filled his head, shrill and paNicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpingtony. ‘your scar hurt? Harry_Potter, that’s really serious … write to professor Albus_Dumbledore! and i’ll go and check common magical ailments and afflictions … maybe there’s something in there about curse scars …’ yes, that would be Hermione_Granger’s advice: go straight to the headmaster of hogwarts, and in the meantime, consult a book. Harry_Potter stared out of the window at the inky, blue-black sky. he doubted very much whether a book could help him now. as far as he knew, he was the only living person to have survived a curse like voldemort’s; it was highly unlikely, therefore, that he would find his symptoms listed in common magical ailments and afflictions. as for informing the headmaster, Harry_Potter had no idea where Albus_Dumbledore went during the summer holidays. he amused himself for a moment, picturing Albus_Dumbledore, with his long silver beard, full-length wizard’s robes and pointed hat, stretched out on a beach somewhere, rubbing suntan lotion into his long crooked nose. wherever Albus_Dumbledore was, though, Harry_Potter was sure that Hedwig would be able to find him; Harry_Potter’s owl had never yet failed to deliver a letter to anyone, even without an address. but what would he write? dear professor Albus_Dumbledore, sorry to bother you, but my scar hurt this morning. yours sincerely, Harry_Potter. even inside his head the words sounded stupid. and so he tried to imagine his other best friend Ronald_Weasley weasley’s reaction, and in a moment, ron’s long-nosed, freckled face seemed to swim before Harry_Potter, wearing a bemused expression. ‘your scar hurt? but … but Tom_Riddle can’t be near you now, can he? i mean … you’d know, wouldn’t you? he’d be trying to do you in again, wouldn’t he? i dunno, Harry_Potter, maybe curse scars always twinge a bit … i’ll ask dad …’ Arthur_Weasley was a fully qualified wizard who worked in the misuse of muggle artefacts office at the ministry of magic, but he didn’t have any particular expertise in the matter of curses, as far as Harry_Potter knew. in any case, Harry_Potter didn’t like the idea of the whole weasley family knowing that he, Harry_Potter, was getting jumpy about a few moments’ pain. Molly_Weasley would fuss worse than Hermione_Granger, and Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, ron’s sixteen-year-old twin brothers, might think Harry_Potter was losing his nerve. the weasleys were Harry_Potter’s favourite family in the world; he was hoping that they might invite him to stay any time now (ron had mentioned something about the quidditch world cup), and he somehow didn’t want his visit punctuated with anxious enquiries about his scar. Harry_Potter kneaded his forehead with his knuckles. what he really wanted (and it felt almost shameful to admit it to himself) was someone like – someone like a parent: an adult wizard whose advice he could ask without feeling stupid, someone who cared about him, who had had experience of dark magic … and then the solution came to him. it was so simple, and so obvious, that he couldn’t believe it had taken so long – Sirius_Black. Harry_Potter leapt up from the bed, hurried across the room and sat down at his desk; he pulled a piece of parchment towards him, loaded his eagle-feather quill with ink, wrote dear Sirius_Black, then paused, wondering how best to phrase his problem, and still marvelling at the fact that he hadn’t thought of Sirius_Black straight away. but then, perhaps it wasn’t so surprising – after all, he had only found out that Sirius_Black was his godfather two months ago. there was a simple reason for Sirius_Black’ complete absence from Harry_Potter’s life until then – Sirius_Black had been in azkaban, the terrifying wizard gaol guarded by creatures called dementors, sightless, soul-sucking fiends who had come to search for Sirius_Black at hogwarts when he had escaped. yet Sirius_Black had been innocent – the murders for which he had been convicted had been committed by Peter_Pettigrew, voldemort’s supporter, whom nearly everybody now believed dead. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger knew otherwise, however; they had come face to face with Peter_Pettigrew the previous year, though only professor Albus_Dumbledore had believed their story. for one glorious hour, Harry_Potter had believed that he was leaving Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley at last, because Sirius_Black had offered him a home once his name had been cleared. but the chance had been snatched away from him – Peter_Pettigrew had escaped before they could take him to the ministry of magic, and Sirius_Black had had to flee for his life. Harry_Potter had helped him escape on the back of a hippogriff called Buckbeak, and since then, Sirius_Black had been on the run. the home Harry_Potter might have had if Peter_Pettigrew had not escaped had been haunting him all summer. it had been doubly hard to return to Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley knowing that he had so nearly escaped them for ever. nevertheless, Sirius_Black had been of some help to Harry_Potter, even if he couldn’t be with him. it was due to Sirius_Black that Harry_Potter now had all his school things in his bedroom with him. Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had never allowed this before; their general wish of keeping Harry_Potter as miserable as possible, coupled with their fear of his powers, had led them to lock his school trunk in the cupboard under the stairs every summer prior to this. but their attitude had changed since they had found out that Harry_Potter had a dangerous murderer for a godfather – Harry_Potter had conveniently forgotten to tell them that Sirius_Black was innocent. Harry_Potter had received two letters from Sirius_Black since he had been back at privet drive. both had been delivered, not by owls (as was usual with wizards) but by large, brightly coloured, tropical birds. Hedwig had not approved of these flashy intruders; she had been most reluctant to allow them to drink from her water tray before flying off again. Harry_Potter, on the other hand, had liked them; they put him in mind of palm trees and white sand, and he Hope_Howelld that wherever Sirius_Black was (Sirius_Black never said, in case the letters were intercepted) he was enjoying himself. somehow, Harry_Potter found it hard to imagine dementors surviving for long in bright sunlight; perhaps that was why Sirius_Black had gone south. Sirius_Black’ letters, which were now hidden beneath the highly useful loose floorboard under Harry_Potter’s bed, sounded cheerful, and in both of them he had reminded Harry_Potter to call on him if ever Harry_Potter needed to. well, he needed to now, all right … Harry_Potter’s lamp seemed to grow dimmer as the cold grey light that precedes sunrise slowly crept into the room. finally, when the sun had risen, when his bedroom walls had turned gold and when sounds of movement could be heard from uncle Vernon_Dursley and aunt Petunia_Dursley’s room, Harry_Potter cleared his desk of crumpled pieces of parchment, and re-read his finished letter. dear Sirius_Black, thanks for your last letter, that bird was enormous, it could hardly get through my window. things are the same as usual here. Dudley_Dursley’s diet isn’t going too well. my aunt found him smuggling doughnuts into his room yesterday. they told him they’d have to cut his pocket money if he keeps doing it, so he got really angry and chucked his playstation out of the window. that’s a sort of computer thing you can play games on. bit stupid really, now he hasn’t even got mega-mutilation part three to take his mind off things. i’m ok, mainly because Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley are terrified you might turn up and turn them all into bats if i ask you to. a weird thing happened this morning, though. my scar hurt again. last time that happened it was because voldemort was at hogwarts. but  i don’t reckon he can be anywhere near me now, can he? do you know if curse scars sometimes hurt years afterwards? i’ll send this with Hedwig when she gets back, she’s off hunting at the moment. say hello to Buckbeak for me. Harry_Potter yes, thought Harry_Potter, that looked all right. there was no point putting in the dream, he didn’t want it to look as though he was too worried. he folded the parchment up and laid it aside on his desk, ready for when Hedwig returned. then he got to his feet, stretched and opened his wardrobe once more. without glancing at his reflection, he started to get dressed before going down to breakfast.  