— chapter eleven — aboard the hogwarts express there was a definite end-of-the-holidays gloom in the air when Harry_Potter awoke next morning. heavy rain was still splattering against the window as he got dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt; they would change into their school robes on the hogwarts express. he, ron, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had just reached the first-floor landing on their way down to breakfast, when mrs weasley appeared at the foot of the stairs, looking harassed. ‘Arthur_Weasley!’ she called up the staircase, ‘Arthur_Weasley! urgent message from the ministry!’ Harry_Potter flattened himself against the wall as mr weasley came clattering past with his robes on back-to-front, and hurtled out of sight. when Harry_Potter and the others entered the kitchen, they saw mrs weasley rummaging anxiously in the dresser drawers – ‘i’ve got a quill here somewhere!’ – and mr weasley bending over the fire, talking to – Harry_Potter shut his eyes hard and opened them again to make sure that they were working properly. Amos_Diggory diggory’s head was sitting in the middle of the flames like a large bearded egg. it was talking very fast, completely unperturbed by the sparks flying around it and the flames licking its ears. ‘… muggle neighbours heard bangs and shouting, so they went and called those what-d’you-call-’ems – please-men. Arthur_Weasley, you’ve got to get over there –’ ‘here!’ said mrs weasley breathlessly, pushing a piece of parchment, a bottle of ink and a crumpled quill into mr weasley’s hands. ‘– it’s a real stroke of luck i heard about it,’ said mr diggory’s head, ‘i had to come into the office early to send a couple of owls, and i found the improper use of Magic_goblin lot all setting off – if Rita_Skeeter skeeter gets hold of this one, Arthur_Weasley –’ ‘what does Alastor_Moody say happened?’ asked mr weasley, unscrewing the    ink bottle, loading up his quill and preparing to take notes. mr diggory’s head rolled its eyes. ‘says he heard an intruder in his yard. says they were creeping towards the house, but they were ambushed by his dustbins.’ ‘what did the dustbins do?’ asked mr weasley, scribbling frantically. ‘made one hell of a noise and fired rubbish everywhere, as far as i can tell,’ said mr diggory. ‘apparently one of them was still rocketing around when the please-men turned up –’ mr weasley groaned. ‘and what about the intruder?’ ‘Arthur_Weasley, you know Alastor_Moody,’ said mr diggory’s head, rolling its eyes again. ‘someone creeping into his yard at the dead of night? more likely there’s a very shellshocked cat wandering around somewhere, covered in potato peelings. but if the improper use of Magic_goblin lot get their hands on mad- eye, he’s had it – think of his record – we’ve got to get him off on a minor charge, something in your department – what are exploding dustbins worth?’ ‘might be a caution,’ said mr weasley, still writing very fast, his brow furrowed. ‘Alastor_Moody didn’t use his wand? he didn’t actually attack anyone?’ ‘i’ll bet he leapt out of bed and started jinxing everything he could reach through the window,’ said mr diggory, ‘but they’ll have a job proving it, there aren’t any casualties.’ ‘all right, i’m off,’ mr weasley said, and he stuffed the parchment with his notes on it into his pocket and dashed out of the kitchen again. mr diggory’s head looked around at mrs weasley. ‘sorry about this, Molly_Weasley,’ it said, more calmly, ‘bothering you so early and everything … but Arthur_Weasley’s the only one who can get Alastor_Moody off, and mad- eye’s supposed to be starting his new job today. why he had to choose last night …’ ‘never mind, Amos_Diggory,’ said mrs weasley. ‘sure you won’t have a bit of toast or anything before you go?’ ‘oh, go on, then,’ said mr diggory. mrs weasley took a piece of buttered toast from a stack on the kitchen table, put it into the fire tongs and transferred it into mr diggory’s mouth. ‘fanks,’ he said in a muffled voice, and then, with a small pop, vanished. Harry_Potter could hear mr weasley calling hurried goodbyes to William_Weasley, Charles_Weasley, Percy_Weasley and the girls. within five minutes, he was back in the kitchen, his robes on the right way now, dragging a comb through his hair. ‘i’d better hurry – you have a good term, boys,’ said mr weasley to Harry_Potter, ron and the twins, dragging a cloak over his shoulders and preparing to disapparate. ‘Molly_Weasley, are you going to be all right taking the kids to king’s cross?’ ‘of course i will,’ she said. ‘you just look after Alastor_Moody, we’ll be fine.’ as mr weasley vanished, William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley entered the kitchen. ‘did someone say Alastor_Moody?’ William_Weasley asked. ‘what’s he been up to now?’ ‘he says someone tried to break into his house last night,’ said mrs weasley. ‘Alastor_Moody moody?’ said George_Weasley thoughtfully, spreading marmalade on his toast. ‘isn’t he that nutter –’ ‘your father thinks very highly of Alastor_Moody moody,’ said mrs weasley sternly. ‘yeah, well, dad collects plugs, doesn’t he?’ said Fred_Weasley quietly, as mrs weasley left the room. ‘birds of a feather …’ ‘moody was a great wizard in his time,’ said William_Weasley. ‘he’s an old friend of Albus_Dumbledore’s, isn’t he?’ said Charles_Weasley. ‘Albus_Dumbledore’s not what you’d call normal, though, is he?’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘i mean, i know he’s a genius and everything …’ ‘who is Alastor_Moody?’ asked Harry_Potter. ‘he’s retired, used to work at the ministry,’ said Charles_Weasley. ‘i met him once when dad took me into work with him. he was an auror – one of the best … a dark-wizard-catcher,’ he added, seeing Harry_Potter’s blank look. ‘half the cells in azkaban are full because of him. he made himself loads of enemies, though … the families of people he caught, mainly … and i heard he’s been getting really paranoid in his old age. doesn’t trust anyone any more. sees dark wizards everywhere.’ William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley decided to come and see everyone off at king’s cross station, but Percy_Weasley, apologising most profusely, said that he really needed to get to work. ‘i just can’t justify taking more time off at the moment,’ he told them. ‘mr crouch is really starting to rely on me.’ ‘yeah, you know what, Percy_Weasley?’ said George_Weasley seriously. ‘i reckon he’ll know your name soon.’ mrs weasley had braved the telephone in the village post office to order three ordinary muggle taxis to take them into london. ‘Arthur_Weasley tried to borrow ministry cars for us,’ mrs weasley whispered to Harry_Potter as they stood in the rain-washed yard, watching the taxi drivers heaving six heavy hogwarts trunks into their cars. ‘but there weren’t any to spare … oh dear, they don’t look happy, do they?’ Harry_Potter didn’t like to tell mrs weasley that muggle taxi drivers rarely transported over-excited owls, and Pigwidgeon was making an ear-splitting racket. nor did it help that a number of dr filibuster’s fabulous wet-start, no-heat fireworks went off unexpectedly when Fred_Weasley’s trunk sprang open, causing the driver carrying it to yell with fright and pain as Crookshanks clawed his way up the man’s leg. the journey was uncomfortable, owing to the fact that they were jammed in the back of the taxis with their trunks. Crookshanks took quite a while to recover from the fireworks, and by the time they entered london, Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger were all severely scratched. they were very relieved to get out at king’s cross, even though the rain was coming down harder than ever, and they got soaked carrying their trunks across the busy road and into the station. Harry_Potter was used to getting onto platform nine and three-quarters by now. it was a simple matter of walking straight through the apparently solid barrier dividing platforms nine and ten. the only tricky part was doing this in an unobtrusive way, so as to avoid attracting muggle attention. they did it in groups today; Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger (the most conspicuous, as they were accompanied by Pigwidgeon and Crookshanks) went first; they leant casually against the barrier, chatting unconcernedly, and slid sideways through it … and as they did so, platform nine and three-quarters materialised in front of them. the hogwarts express, a gleaming scarlet steam engine, was already there, clouds of steam William_Weasleyowing from it, through which the many hogwarts students and parents on the platform appeared like dark ghosts. Pigwidgeon became noisier than ever in response to the hooting of many owls through the mist. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger set off to find seats, and were soon stowing their luggage in a compartment halfway along the train. they then hopped back down onto the platform, to say goodbye to mrs weasley, William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley. ‘i might be seeing you all sooner than you think,’ said Charles_Weasley, grinning, as he hugged Ginevra_Weasley goodbye. ‘why?’ said Fred_Weasley keenly. ‘you’ll see,’ said Charles_Weasley. ‘just don’t tell Percy_Weasley i mentioned it … it’s “classified information, until such time as the ministry sees fit to release it”, after all. ’ ‘yeah, i sort of wish i was back at hogwarts this year,’ said William_Weasley, hands in his pockets, looking almost wistfully at the train. ‘why?’ said George_Weasley impatiently. ‘you’re going to have an interesting year,’ said William_Weasley, his eyes twinkling. ‘i might even get time off to come and watch a bit of it …’ ‘a bit of what?’ said ron. but at that moment, the whistle blew, and mrs weasley chivvied them towards the train doors. ‘thanks for having us to stay, mrs weasley,’ said Hermione_Granger, as they climbed on board, closed the door and leant out of the window to talk to her. ‘yeah, thanks for everything, mrs weasley,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh, it was my pleasure, dears,’ said mrs weasley. ‘i’d invite you for christmas, but … well, i expect you’re all going to want to stay at hogwarts, what with … one thing and another.’ ‘mum!’ saidRonald_WeasleyirRita_Skeeterbly. ‘what d’you three know that we don’t?’ ‘you’ll find out this evening, i expect,’ said mrs weasley, smiling. ‘it’s going to be very exciting – mind you, i’m very glad they’ve changed the rules –’ ‘what rules?’ said Harry_Potter, ron, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley together. ‘i’m sure professor Albus_Dumbledore will tell you … now, behave, won’t you? won’t you, Fred_Weasley? and you, George_Weasley?’ the pistons hissed loudly, and the train began to move. ‘tell us what’s happening at hogwarts!’ Fred_Weasley bellowed out of the window, as mrs weasley, William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley sped away from them. ‘what rules are they changing?’ but mrs weasley only smiled and waved. before the train had rounded the corner, she, William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley had disapparated. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger went back to their compartment. the thick rain splattering the windows made it very difficult to see out of them.Ronald_Weasleyundid his trunk, pulled out his maroon dress robes, and flung them over Pigwidgeon’s cage to muffle his hooting. ‘bagman wanted to tell us what’s happening at hogwarts,’ he said grumpily, sitting down next to Harry_Potter. ‘at the world cup, remember? but my own mother won’t say. wonder what –’ ‘shh!’ Hermione_Granger whispered suddenly, pressing her finger to her lips and pointing towards the compartment next to theirs. Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleylistened, and heard a familiar drawling voice drifting in through the open door. ‘… father actually considered sending me to durmstrang rather than hogwarts, you know. he knows the headmaster, you see. well, you know his opinion of Albus_Dumbledore – the man’s such a mudblood-lover – and durmstrang doesn’t admit that sort of riff-raff. but mother didn’t like the idea of me going to school so far away. father says durmstrang takes a far more sensible line than hogwarts about the dark arts. durmstrang students actually learn them, not just the defence rubbish we do …’ Hermione_Granger got up, tiptoed to the compartment door, and slid it shut, blocking out malfoy’s voice. ‘so he thinks durmstrang would have suited him, does he?’ she said angrily. ‘i wish he had gone, then we wouldn’t have had to put up with him.’ ‘durmstrang’s another wizarding school?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yes,’ said Hermione_Granger sniffily, ‘and it’s got a horrible reputation. according to an appraisal of Magic_goblinal education in europe, it puts a lot of emphasis on the dark arts.’ ‘i think i’ve heard of it,’ saidRonald_Weasleyvaguely. ‘where is it? what country?’ ‘well, nobody knows, do they?’ said Hermione_Granger, raising her eyebrows. ‘er – why not?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘there’s traditionally been a lot of rivalry between all the Magic_goblin schools. durmstrang and beauxbatons like to conceal their whereabouts so nobody can steal their secrets,’ said Hermione_Granger matter-of-factly. ‘come off it,’ said ron, starting to laugh. ‘durmstrang’s got to be about the same size as hogwarts, how are you going to hide a dirty great castle?’ ‘but hogwarts is hidden,’ said Hermione_Granger, in surprise, ‘everyone knows that … well, everyone who’s read hogwarts: a history, anyway.’ ‘just you, then,’ said ron. ‘so go on – how d’you hide a place like hogwarts?’ ‘it’s bewitched,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘if a muggle looks at it, all they see is a mouldering old ruin with a sign over the entrance saying danger, do not enter, unsafe.’ ‘so durmstrang’ll just look like a ruin to an outsider, too?’ ‘maybe,’ said Hermione_Granger, shrugging, ‘or it might have muggle-repelling charms on it, like the world cup stadium. and to keep foreign wizards from finding it, they’ll have made it unplottable –’ ‘come again?’ ‘well, you can enchant a building so it’s impossible to plot on a map, can’t you?’ ‘er … if you say so,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but i think durmstrang must be somewhere in the far north,’ said Hermione_Granger thoughtfully. ‘somewhere very cold, because they’ve got fur capes as part of their uniforms.’ ‘ah, think of the possibilities,’ saidRonald_Weasleydreamily. ‘it would’ve been so easy to push malfoy off a glacier and make it look like an accident … shame his mother likes him …’ the rain became heavier and heavier as the train moved further north. the sky was so dark and the windows so steamy that the lanterns were lit by midday. the lunch trolley came rattling along the corridor, and Harry_Potter bought a large stack of cauldron cakes for them to share. several of their friends looked in on them as the afternoon progressed, including Seamus_Finnigan finnigan, Dean_Thomas thomas and Neville_Longbottom longbottom, a round- faced, extremely forgetful boy who had been brought up by his formidable witch of a grandmother. Seamus_Finnigan was still wearing his ireland rosette. some of its Magic_goblin seemed to be wearing off now; it was still squeaking ‘Troy! Mullet! moran!’, but in a very feeble and exhausted sort of way. after half an hour or so, Hermione_Granger, growing tired of the endless quidditch talk, buried herself once more in the Stanley_Shunpikedard book of spells, grade 4, and started trying to learn a summoning charm. Neville_Longbottom listened jealously to the others’ conversation as they relived the cup match. ‘gran didn’t want to go,’ he said miserably. ‘wouldn’t buy tickets. it sounded amazing, though.’ ‘it was,’ said ron. ‘look at this, Neville_Longbottom …’ he rummaged in his trunk up in the luggage rack, and pulled out the miniature figure of Viktor_Krum krum. ‘oh, wow,’ said Neville_Longbottom enviously, asRonald_Weasleytipped krum onto his pudgy hand. ‘we saw him right up close, as well,’ said ron. ‘we were in the top box –’ ‘for the first and last time in your life, weasley.’ Draco_Malfoy malfoy had appeared in the doorway. behind him stood crabbe and Goyle, his enormous, thuggish cronies, both of whom appeared to have grown at least a foot during the summer. evidently they had overheard the conversation through the compartment door, which Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan had left ajar. ‘don’t remember asking you to join us, malfoy,’ said Harry_Potter coolly. ‘weasley … what is that?’ said malfoy, pointing at Pigwidgeon’s cage. a sleeve of ron’s dress robes was dangling from it, swaying with the motion of the train, the mouldy lace cuff very obvious. ron made to stuff the robes out of sight, but malfoy was too quick for him; he seized the sleeve and pulled. ‘look at this!’ said malfoy in ecstasy, holding up ron’s robes and showing crabbe and Goyle. ‘weasley, you weren’t thinking of wearing these, were you? i mean – they were very fashionable in about 1890 …’ ‘eat Mundungus_Fletcher, malfoy!’ said ron, the same colour as the dress robes as he snatched them back out of malfoy’s grip. malfoy howled with derisive laughter; crabbe and Goyle guffawed stupidly. ‘so … going to enter, weasley? going to try and bring a bit of glory to the family name? there’s money involved as well, you know … you’d be able to afford some decent robes if you won …’ ‘what are you talking about?’ snapped ron. ‘are you going to enter?’ malfoy repeated. ‘i suppose you will, potter? you never miss a chance to show off, do you?’ ‘either explain what you’re on about or go away, malfoy,’ said Hermione_Granger testily, over the top of the Stanley_Shunpikedard book of spells, grade 4. a gleeful smile spread across malfoy’s pale face. ‘don’t tell me you don’t know?’ he said delightedly. ‘you’ve got a father and brother at the ministry and you don’t even know? my god, my father told me about it ages ago … heard it from Cornelius_Fudge fudge. but then, father’s always associated with the top people at the ministry … maybe your father’s too junior to know about it, weasley … yes … they probably don’t talk about important stuff in front of him …’ laughing once more, malfoy beckoned to crabbe and Goyle, and the three of them disappeared.Ronald_Weasleygot to his feet and slammed the sliding compartment door so hard behind them that the glass shattered. ‘ron!’ said Hermione_Granger reproachfully, and she pulled out her wand, muttered ‘reparo!’, and the glass shards flew back into a single pane, and back into the door. ‘well … making it look like he knows everything and we don’t …’Ronald_Weasleysnarled. ‘ father’s always associated with the top people at the ministry … dad could’ve got promotion any time … he just likes it where he is …’ ‘of course he does,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly. ‘don’t let malfoy get to you,Ronald_Weasley–’ ‘him! get to me! as if!’ said ron, picking up one of the remaining cauldron cakes and squashing it into a pulp. ron’s bad mood continued for the rest of the journey. he didn’t talk much as they changed into their school robes, and was still glowering when the hogwarts express slowed down at last, and finally stopped in the pitch- darkness of hogsmeade station. as the train doors opened, there was a rumble of thunder overhead. Hermione_Granger bundled Crookshanks up in her cloak andRonald_Weasleyleft his dress robes over Pigwidgeon as they left the train, heads bent and eyes narrowed against the downpour. the rain was now coming down so thick and fast that it was as though buckets of ice-cold water were being emptied repeatedly over their heads. ‘hi, Rubeus_Hagrid!’ Harry_Potter yelled, seeing a gigantic silhouette at the far end of the platform. ‘all righ’, Harry_Potter?’ Rubeus_Hagrid bellowed back, waving. ‘see yeh at the feast if we don’ drown!’ first-years traditionally reached hogwarts castle by sailing across the lake with Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘oooh, i wouldn’t fancy crossing the lake in this weather,’ said Hermione_Granger fervently, shivering as they inched slowly along the dark platform with the rest of the crowd. a hundred horseless carriages stood waiting for them outside the station. Harry_Potter, ron, Hermione_Granger and Neville_Longbottom climbed gratefully into one of them, the door shut with a snap, and a few moments later, with a great lurch, the long procession of carriages was rumbling and splashing its way up the track towards hogwarts castle. 