— chapter fifteen — beauxbatons and durmstrang early next morning, Harry_Potter woke with a plan fully formed in his mind, as though his sleeping brain had been working on it all night. he got up, dressed in the pale dawn light, left the dormitory without waking Ronald_Weasley and went back down to the deserted common room. here he took a piece of parchment from the table upon which his divination homework still lay, and wrote the following letter: dear Sirius_Black, i reckon i just imagined my scar hurting, i was half-asleep when i wrote to you last time. there’s no point coming back, everything’s fine here. don’t worry about me, my head feels completely normal. Harry_Potter he then climbed out of the portrait hole, up through the silent castle (held up only briefly by Peeves, who tried to overturn a large vase on him halfway along the fourth-floor corridor), finally arriving at the owlery, which was situated at the top of west tower. the owlery was a circular stone room; rather cold and draughty, because none of the windows had glass in them. the floor was entirely covered in straw, owl droppings and the regurgitated skeletons of mice and voles. hundreds upon hundreds of owls of every breed imaginable were nestled here on perches that rose right up to the top of the tower, nearly all of them asleep, though here and there a round amber eye glared at Harry_Potter. he spotted Hedwig nestled between a barn owl and a tawny, and hurried over to her, sliding a little on the dropping-strewn floor. it took him a little while to persuade her to wake up and then to look at him as she kept shuffling around on her perch, showing him her tail. she was evidently still furious about his lack of gratitude the previous night. in the end, it was Harry_Potter suggesting she might be too tired, and that perhaps he would ask Ronald_Weasley to borrow Pigwidgeon, that made her stick out her leg and      allow him to tie the letter to it. ‘just find him, all right?’ Harry_Potter said, stroking her back as he carried her on his arm to one of the holes in the wall. ‘before the dementors do.’ she nipped his finger, perhaps rather harder than she would ordinarily have done, but hooted softly in a reassuring sort of way all the same. then she spread her wings and took off into the sunrise. Harry_Potter watched her out of sight with the familiar feeling of unease back in his stomach. he had been so sure that Sirius_Black’ reply would alleviate his worries rather than increasing them. * ‘that was a lie, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger sharply over breakfast, when he told her and Ronald_Weasley what he had done. ‘you didn’t imagine your scar hurting and you know it.’ ‘so what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s not going back to azkaban because of me.’ ‘drop it,’ said Ronald_Weasley sharply to Hermione_Granger, as she opened her mouth to argue some more, and for once, Hermione_Granger heeded him, and fell silent. Harry_Potter did his best not to worry about Sirius_Black over the next couple of weeks. true, he could not stop himself looking anxiously around every morning when the post owls arrived, nor, late at night before he went to sleep, prevent himself seeing horrible visions of Sirius_Black, cornered by dementors down some dark london street, but between times he tried to keep his mind off his godfather. he wished he still had quidditch to distract him; nothing worked so well on a troubled mind as a good, hard training session. on the other hand, their lessons were becoming more difficult and demanding than ever before, particularly defence against the dark arts. to their surprise, professor moody had announCedric_Diggory that he would be putting the imperius curse on each of them in turn, to demonstrate its power and to see whether they could resist its effects. ‘but – but you said it’s illegal, professor,’ said Hermione_Granger uncertainly, as moody cleared away the desks with a sweep of his wand, leaving a large clear space in the middle of the room. ‘you said – to use it against another human was –’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore wants you taught what it feels like,’ said moody, his magical eye swivelling onto Hermione_Granger and fixing her with an eerie, unblinking stare. ‘if you’d rather learn the hard way – when someone’s putting it on you so they can control you completely – fine by me. you’re excused. off you go.’ he pointed one gnarled finger towards the door. Hermione_Granger went very pink, and muttered something about not meaning that she wanted to leave. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley grinned at each other. they knew Hermione_Granger would rather eat bubotuber pus than miss such an important lesson. moody began to beckon students forwards in turn and put the imperius curse upon them. Harry_Potter watched as, one by one, his classmates did the most extraordinary things under its influence. Dean_Thomas hopped three times around the room, singing the national anthem. Lavender_Brown imitated a squirrel. Neville_Longbottom performed a series of quite astonishing gymnastics he would certainly not have been capable of in his normal state. not one of them seemed to be able to fight the curse off, and each of them recovered only when moody had removed it. ‘potter,’ moody growled, ‘you next.’ Harry_Potter moved forward into the middle of the classroom, into the space that moody had cleared of desks. moody raised his wand, pointed it at Harry_Potter, and said, ‘imperio.’ it was the most wonderful feeling. Harry_Potter felt a floating sensation as every thought and worry in his head was wiped gently away, leaving nothing but a vague, untraceable happiness. he stood there feeling immensely relaxed, only dimly aware of everyone watching him. and then he heard Alastor_Moody moody’s voice, echoing in some distant chamber of his empty brain: jump onto the desk … jump onto the desk … Harry_Potter bent his knees obediently, preparing to spring. jump onto the desk … why, though? another voice had awoken in the back of his brain. stupid thing to do, really, said the voice. jump onto the desk … no, i don’t think i will, thanks, said the other voice, a little more firmly … no, i don’t really want to … jump! now! the next thing Harry_Potter felt was considerable pain. he had both jumped and tried to prevent himself from jumping – the result was that he’d smashed headlong into the desk, knocking it over, and, by the feeling in his legs, fractured both his kneecaps. ‘now, that’s more like it!’ growled moody’s voice, and suddenly Harry_Potter felt the empty, echoing feeling in his head disappear. he remembered exactly what was happening, and the pain in his knees seemed to double. ‘look at that, you lot … potter fought! he fought it, and he damn near beat it! we’ll try that again, potter, and the rest of you, pay attention – watch his eyes, that’s where you see it – very good, potter, very good indeed! they’ll have trouble controlling you!’ ‘the way he talks,’ Harry_Potter muttered, as he hobbled out of the defence against the dark arts class an hour later (moody had insisted on putting Harry_Potter through his paces four times in a row, until Harry_Potter could throw the curse off entirely), ‘you’d think we were all going to be attacked any second.’ ‘yeah, i know,’ said Ronald_Weasley who was skipping on every alternate step. he had had much more difficulty with the curse than Harry_Potter, though moody assured him the effects would have worn off by lunchtime. ‘talk about paranoid …’ Ronald_Weasley glanCedric_Diggory nervously over his shoulder to check that moody was definitely out of earshot, and went on, ‘no wonder they were glad to get shot of him at the ministry, did you hear him telling Seamus_Finnigan what he did to that witch who shouted “boo” behind him on april fools’ day? and when are we supposed to read up on resisting the imperius curse with everything else we’ve got to do?’ all the fourth-years had notiCedric_Diggory a definite increase in the amount of work they were required to do this term. professor Minerva_McGonagall explained why, when the class gave a particularly loud groan at the amount of transfiguration homework she had set. ‘you are now entering a most important phase of your magical education!’ she told them, her eyes glinting dangerously behind her square spectacles. ‘your ordinary wizarding levels are drawing closer –’ ‘we don’t take o.w.ls ’til fifth year!’ said Dean_Thomas indignantly. ‘maybe not, thomas, but believe me, you need all the preparation you can get! miss granger remains the only person in this class who has managed to turn a hedgehog into a satisfactory pincushion. i might remind you that your pincushion, thomas, still curls up in fright if anyone approaches it with a pin!’ Hermione_Granger, who had turned rather pink again, seemed to be trying not to look too pleased with herself. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley were deeply amused when professor Sybill_Trelawney told them that they had received top marks for their homework in their next divination class. she read out large portions of their predictions, commending them for their unflinching acceptance of the horrors in store for them – but they were less amused when she asked them to do the same thing for the month after next; both of them were running out of ideas for catastrophes. meanwhile professor binns, the ghost who taught history of magic, had them writing weekly essays on the goblin rebellions of the eighteenth century. professor snape was forcing them to research antidotes. they took this seriously, as he had hinted that he might be poisoning one of them before christmas to see if their antidote worked. professor flitwick had asked them to read three extra books in preparation for their lesson on summoning charms. even Rubeus_Hagrid was adding to their workload. the Blast-Ended_Skrewts were growing at a remarkable pace, given that nobody had yet discovered what they ate. Rubeus_Hagrid was delighted and, as part of their ‘project’, suggested that they come down to his hut on alternate evenings to observe the skrewts and make notes on their extraordinary behaviour. ‘i will not,’ said Draco_Malfoy flatly, when Rubeus_Hagrid had proposed this with the air of father christmas pulling an extra large toy out of his sack. ‘i see enough of these foul things during lessons, thanks.’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s smile faded from his face. ‘yeh’ll do wha’ yer told,’ he growled, ‘or i’ll be takin’ a leaf outta professor moody’s book … i hear yeh made a good ferret, malfoy.’ the gryffindors roared with laughter. malfoy flushed with anger, but apparently the memory of moody’s punishment was still sufficiently painful to stop him retorting. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger returned to the castle at the end of the lesson in high spirits; seeing Rubeus_Hagrid put down malfoy was particularly satisfying, especially because malfoy had done his very best to get Rubeus_Hagrid sacked the previous year. when they arrived in the entrance hall, they found themselves unable to proceed owing to the large crowd of students congregated there, all milling around a large sign which had been erected at the foot of the marble staircase. Ronald_Weasley the tallest of the three, stood on tiptoe to see over the heads in front of them and read the sign aloud to the other two. triwizard tournament the delegations from beauxbatons and durmstrang will be arriving at 6 o’clock on friday 30th of october. lessons will end half an hour early – ‘brilliant!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘it’s potions last thing on friday! snape won’t have time to poison us all!’ students will return their bags and books to their dormitories and assemble in front of the castle to greet our guests before the welcoming    feast. ‘only a week away!’ said Ernest_Prangmacmillan of hufflepuff, emerging from the crowd, his eyes gleaming. ‘i wonder if Cedric_Diggory knows? think i’ll go and tell him …’ ‘Cedric_Diggory?’ said Ronald_Weasley blankly, as Ernest_Pranghurried off. ‘diggory,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he must be entering the tournament.’ ‘that idiot, hogwarts champion?’ said Ronald_Weasley as they pushed their way through the chattering crowd towards the staircase. ‘he’s not an idiot, you just don’t like him because he beat gryffindor at quidditch,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i’ve heard he’s a really good student – and he’s a prefect.’ she spoke as though this settled the matter. ‘you only like him because he’s handsome,’ said Ronald_Weasley scathingly. ‘excuse me, i don’t like people just because they’re handsome!’ said Hermione_Granger indignantly. Ronald_Weasley gave a loud false cough, which sounded oddly like ‘lockhart!’. the appearance of the sign in the entrance hall had a marked effect upon the inhabitants of the castle. during the following week, there seemed to be only one topic of conversation, no matter where Harry_Potter went: the triwizard tournament. rumours were flying from student to student like highly contagious germs: who was going to try for hogwarts champion, what the tournament would involve, how the students from beauxbatons and durmstrang differed from themselves. Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory, too, that the castle seemed to be undergoing an extra- thorough cleaning. several grimy portraits had been scrubbed, much to the displeasure of their subjects, who sat huddled in their frames muttering darkly and wincing as they felt their raw pink faces. the suits of armour were suddenly gleaming and moving without squeaking, and Argus_Filch, the caretaker, was behaving so ferociously to any student who forgot to wipe their shoes that he terrified a pair of first-year girls into hystEric_Munchs. other members of staff seemed oddly tense, too. ‘longbottom, kindly do not reveal that you can’t even perform a simple switching spell in front of anyone from durmstrang!’ professor Minerva_McGonagall barked at the end of one particularly difficult lesson, during which Neville_Longbottom had accidentally transplanted his own ears onto a cactus. when they went down to breakfast on the morning of the thirtieth of  october, they found that the great hall had been decorated overnight. enormous silk banners hung from the walls, each of them representing a hogwarts house – red with a gold lion for gryffindor, blue with a bronze eagle for ravenclaw, yellow with a black badger for hufflepuff, and green with a silver serpent for slytherin. behind the teachers’ table, the largest banner of all bore the hogwarts coat of arms: lion, eagle, badger and snake united around a large letter ‘h’. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger spotted Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley at the gryffindor table. once again, and most unusually, they were sitting apart from everyone else and conversing in low voices. Ronald_Weasley led the way over to them. ‘it’s a bummer all right,’ George_Weasley was saying gloomily to Fred_Weasley. ‘but if he won’t talk to us in person, we’ll have to send him the letter after all. or we’ll stuff it into his hand, he can’t avoid us for ever.’ ‘who’s avoiding you?’ said Ronald_Weasley sitting down next to them. ‘wish you would,’ said Fred_Weasley, looking irRita_Skeeterted at the interruption. ‘what’s a bummer?’ Ronald_Weasley asked George_Weasley. ‘having a nosy git like you for a brother,’ said George_Weasley. ‘you two got any ideas on the triwizard tournament yet?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘thought any more about trying to enter?’ ‘i asked Minerva_McGonagall how the champions are chosen but she wasn’t telling,’ said George_Weasley bitterly. ‘she just told me to shut up and get on with transfiguring my raccoon.’ ‘wonder what the tasks are going to be?’ said Ronald_Weasley thoughtfully. ‘you know, i bet we could do them, Harry_Potter, we’ve done dangerous stuff before …’ ‘not in front of a panel of judges, you haven’t,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘Minerva_McGonagall says the champions get awarded points according to how well they’ve done the tasks.’ ‘who are the judges?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘well, the heads of the participating schools are always on the panel,’ said Hermione_Granger, and everyone looked around at her, rather surprised, ‘because all three of them were injured during the tournament of 1792, when a cockatrice the champions were supposed to be catching went on the rampage.’ she notiCedric_Diggory them all looking at her and said, with her usual air of impatience that nobody else had read all the books she had, ‘it’s all in hogwarts: a history. though, of course, that book’s not entirely reliable. “a revised history of hogwarts” would be a more accurate title. or “a highly biased and selective history of hogwarts, which glosses over the nastier aspects of the school”.’ ‘what are you on about?’ said Ronald_Weasley though Harry_Potter thought he knew what was coming. ‘house-elves!’ said Hermione_Granger loudly and proving Harry_Potter right. ‘not once, in over a thousand pages, does hogwarts: a history mention that we are all colluding in the oppression of a hundred slaves!’ Harry_Potter shook his head, and applied himself to his scrambled eggs. his and ron’s lack of enthusiasm had done nothing whatsoever to curb Hermione_Granger’s determination to pursue justice for house-elves. true, both of them had paid two sickles for a s.p.e.w. badge, but they had only done it to keep her quiet. their sickles had been wasted, however; if anything, they seemed to have made Hermione_Granger more vociferous. she had been badgering Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ever since, firstly to wear the badges, then to persuade others to do the same, and she had also taken to rattling around the gryffindor common room every evening, cornering people and shaking the collecting tin under their noses. ‘you do realise that your sheets are changed, your fires lit, your classrooms cleaned and your food Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maned by a group of magical creatures who are unpaid and enslaved?’ she kept saying fiercely. some people, like Neville_Longbottom, had paid up just to stop Hermione_Granger glowering at them. a few seemed mildly interested in what she had to say, but were reluctant to take a more active role in campaigning. many regarded the whole thing as a joke. Ronald_Weasley now rolled his eyes at the ceiling, which was flooding them all in autumn sunlight, and Fred_Weasley became extremely interested in his bacon (both twins had refused to buy a s.p.e.w. badge). George_Weasley, however, leant towards Hermione_Granger. ‘listen, have you ever been down in the kitchens, Hermione_Granger?’ ‘no, of course not,’ said Hermione_Granger curtly, ‘i hardly think students are supposed to –’ ‘well, we have,’ said George_Weasley, indicating Fred_Weasley, ‘loads of times, to Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington food. and we’ve met them, and they’re happy. they think they’ve got the best job in the world –’ ‘that’s because they’re uneducated and brainwashed!’ Hermione_Granger began hotly, but her next few words were drowned by the sudden whooshing noise from overhead which announCedric_Diggory the arrival of the post owls. Harry_Potter looked up at once, and saw Hedwig soaring towards him. Hermione_Granger stopped talking abruptly; she and Ronald_Weasley watched Hedwig anxiously, as she fluttered down onto Harry_Potter’s shoulder, folded her wings and held out her leg wearily. Harry_Potter pulled off Sirius_Black’ reply and offered Hedwig his bacon rinds, which she ate gratefully. then, checking that Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were safely immersed in further discussions about the triwizard tournament, Harry_Potter read out Sirius_Black’ letter in a whisper to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. nice try, Harry_Potter. i’m back in the country and well hidden. i want you to keep me posted on everything that’s going on at hogwarts. don’t use Hedwig, keep changing owls, and don’t worry about me, just watch out for yourself. don’t forget what i said about your scar. Sirius_Black ‘why d’you have to keep changing owls?’ Ronald_Weasley asked in a low voice. ‘Hedwig’ll attract too much attention,’ said Hermione_Granger at once. ‘she stands out. a snowy owl that keeps returning to wherever he’s hiding … i mean, they’re not native birds, are they?’ Harry_Potter rolled up the letter and slipped it inside his robes, wondering whether he felt more or less worried than before. he supposed that Sirius_Black managing to get back without being caught was something. he couldn’t deny, either, that the idea that Sirius_Black was much nearer was reassuring; at least he wouldn’t have to wait so long for a response every time he wrote. ‘thanks, Hedwig,’ he said, stroking her. she hooted sleepily, dipped her beak briefly into his goblet of orange juice, then took off again, clearly desperate for a good long sleep in the owlery. there was a pleasant feeling of anticipation in the air that day. nobody was very attentive in lessons, being much more interested in the arrival that evening of the people from beauxbatons and durmstrang; even potions was more bearable than usual, as it was half an hour shorter. when the bell rang early, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger hurried up to gryffindor tower, deposited their bags and books as they had been instructed, pulled on their cloaks and rushed back downstairs into the entrance hall. the heads of houses were ordering their students into lines. ‘weasley, straighten your hat,’ professor Minerva_McGonagall snapped at Ronald_Weasley ‘miss patil, take that ridiculous thing out of your hair.’ Parvati_Patil scowled and removed a large ornamental butterfly from the end of her plait. ‘follow me, please,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall, ‘first-years in front … no pushing …’   they filed down the front steps and lined up in front of the castle. it was a cold, clear evening; dusk was falling and a pale, transparent-looking moon was already shining over the forbidden forest. Harry_Potter, standing between Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger in the fourth row from the front, saw Dennis_Creevey positively shivering with anticipation among the other first-years. ‘nearly six,’ said Ronald_Weasley checking his watch and then staring down the drive which led to the front gates. ‘how d’you reckon they’re coming? the train?’ ‘i doubt it,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘how, then? broomsticks?’ Harry_Potter suggested, looking up at the starry sky. ‘i don’t think so … not from that far away …’ ‘a portkey?’ Ronald_Weasley suggested. ‘or they could apparate – maybe you’re allowed to do it under seventeen wherever they come from?’ ‘you can’t apparate inside the hogwarts grounds, how often do i have to tell you?’ said Hermione_Granger impatiently. they scanned the darkening grounds excitedly, but nothing was moving; everything was still, silent and quite as usual. Harry_Potter was starting to feel cold. he wished they’d hurry up … maybe the foreign students were preparing a dramatic entrance … he remembered what Arthur_Weasley had said back on the campsite before the quidditch world cup – ‘always the same, we can’t resist showing off when we get together …’ and then Albus_Dumbledore called out from the back row, where he stood with the other teachers – ‘aha! unless i am very much mistaken, the delegation from beauxbatons approaches!’ ‘where?’ said many students eagerly, all looking in different directions. ‘there!’ yelled a sixth-year, pointing over the forest. something large, much larger than a broomstick – or, indeed, a hundred broomsticks – was hurtling across the deep blue sky towards the castle, growing larger all the time. ‘it’s a dragon!’ shrieked one of the first-years, losing her head completely. ‘don’t be stupid … it’s a flying house!’ said Dennis_Creevey. Dennis_Creevey’s guess was closer … as the gigantic black shape skimmed over the treetops of the forbidden forest, and the lights shining from the castle windows hit it, they saw a gigantic, powder-blue, horse-drawn carriage, the size of a large house, soaring towards them, pulled through the air by a dozen winged horses, all palominos, and each the size of an elephant. the front three rows of students drew backwards as the carriage hurtled ever lower, coming in to land at a tremendous speed – then, with an almighty crash that made Neville_Longbottom jump backwards onto a slytherin fifth-year’s foot – the horses’ hooves, larger than dinner plates, hit the ground. a second later, the carriage landed too, bouncing upon its vast wheels, while the golden horses tossed their enormous heads and rolled large, fiery red eyes. Harry_Potter just had time to see that the door of the carriage bore a coat of arms (two crossed, golden wands, each emitting three stars) before it opened. a boy in pale blue robes jumped down from the carriage, bent forwards, fumbled for a moment with something on the carriage floor and unfolded a set of golden steps. he sprang back respectfully. then Harry_Potter saw a shining, high- heeled black shoe emerging from the inside of the carriage – a shoe the size of a child’s sled – followed, almost immediately, by the largest woman he had ever seen in his life. the size of the carriage, and of the horses, was immediately explained. a few people gasped. Harry_Potter had only ever seen one person as large as this woman in his life, and that was Rubeus_Hagrid; he doubted whether there was an inch difference in their heights. yet somehow – maybe simply because he was used to Rubeus_Hagrid – this woman (now at the foot of the steps, and looking around at the waiting, wide- eyed crowd) seemed even more unnaturally large. as she stepped into the light flooding from the entrance hall, she was revealed to have a handsome, olive-skinned face, large, black, liquid-looking eyes and a rather Buckbeak nose. her hair was drawn back in a shining knob at the base of her neck. she was dressed from head to foot in black satin, and many magnificent opals gleamed at her throat and on her thick fingers. Albus_Dumbledore started to clap; the students, following his lead, broke into applause too, many of them standing on tiptoe, the better to look at this woman. her face relaxed into a gracious smile, and she walked forwards towards Albus_Dumbledore, extending a glittering hand. Albus_Dumbledore, though tall himself, had barely to bend to kiss it. ‘my dear madame maxime,’ he said. ‘welcome to hogwarts.’ ‘dumbly-dorr,’ said madame maxime, in a deep voice. ‘i ’ope i find you well?’ ‘on excellent form, i thank you,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘my pupils,’ said madame maxime, waving one of her enormous hands carelessly behind her. Harry_Potter, whose attention had been focused completely upon madame maxime, now notiCedric_Diggory that around a dozen boys and girls – all, by the look of them, in their late teens – had emerged from the carriage and were now standing behind madame maxime. they were shivering, which was unsurprising, given that their robes seemed to be made of fine silk, and none of them were wearing cloaks. a few of them had wrapped scarves and shawls around their heads. from what Harry_Potter could see of their faces (they were standing in madame maxime’s enormous shadow), they were staring up at hogwarts with apprehensive looks on their faces. ‘’as karkaroff arrived yet?’ madame maxime asked. ‘he should be here any moment,’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘would you like to wait here and greet him or would you prefer to step inside and warm up a trifle?’ ‘warm up, i think,’ said madame maxime. ‘but ze ’orses –’ ‘our care of magical creatures teacher will be delighted to take care of them,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, ‘the moment he has returned from dealing with a slight situation which has arisen with some of his other – er – charges.’ ‘skrewts,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered to Harry_Potter, grinning. ‘my steeds require – er – forceful ’andling,’ said madame maxime, looking as though she doubted whether any care of magical creatures teacher at hogwarts could be up to the job. ‘zey are very strong …’ ‘i assure you that Rubeus_Hagrid will be well up to the job,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, smiling. ‘very well,’ said madame maxime, bowing slightly, ‘will you please inform zis ’agrid zat ze ’orses drink only single-malt whisky?’ ‘it will be attended to,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, also bowing. ‘come,’ said madame maxime imperiously to her students, and the hogwarts crowd parted to allow her and her students to pass up the stone steps. ‘how big d’you reckon durmstrang’s horses are going to be?’ Seamus_Finnigan said, leaning around Lavender_Brown and Parvati_Patil to address Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley ‘well, if they’re any bigger than this lot, even Rubeus_Hagrid won’t be able to handle them,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘that’s if he hasn’t been attacked by his skrewts. wonder what’s up with them?’ ‘maybe they’ve escaped,’ said Ronald_Weasley Hope_Howellfully. ‘oh, don’t say that,’ said Hermione_Granger, with a shudder. ‘imagine that lot loose in the grounds …’ they stood, shivering slightly now, waiting for the durmstrang party to arrive. most people were gazing Hope_Howellfully up at the sky. for a few minutes, the silence was broken only by madame maxime’s huge horses snorting and stamping. but then – ‘can you hear something?’ said Ronald_Weasley suddenly. Harry_Potter listened; a loud and oddly eerie noise was drifting towards them from out of the darkness; a muffled rumbling and sucking sound, as though an immense vacuum cleaner was moving along a Lee_Jordan-bed … ‘the lake!’ yelled Lee_Jordan, pointing down at it. ‘look at the lake!’ from their position at the top of the lawns overlooking the grounds, they had a clear view of the smooth black surface of the water – except that the surface was suddenly not smooth at all. some disturbance was taking place deep in the centre; great bubbles were forming on the surface, waves were now washing over the muddy banks – and then, out in the very middle of the lake, a whirlpool appeared, as if a giant plug had just been pulled out of the lake’s floor … what seemed to be a long, black pole began to rise slowly out of the heart of the whirlpool … and then Harry_Potter saw the rigging … ‘it’s a mast!’ he said to Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. slowly, magnificently, the ship rose out of the water, gleaming in the moonlight. it had a strangely skeletal look about it, as though it was a resurrected wreck, and the dim, misty lights shimmering at its portholes looked like ghostly eyes. finally, with a great sloshing noise, the ship emerged entirely, bobbing on the turbulent water, and began to glide towards the bank. a few moments later, they heard the splash of an anchor being thrown down in the shallows, and the thud of a plank being lowered onto the bank. people were disembarking; they could see their silhouettes passing the lights in the ship’s portholes. all of them, Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory, seemed to be built along the lines of crabbe and Goyle … but then, as they drew nearer, walking up the lawns into the light streaming from the entrance hall, he saw that their bulk was really due to the fact that they were wearing cloaks of some kind of shaggy, matted fur. but the man who was leading them up to the castle was wearing furs of a different sort; sleek and silver, like his hair. ‘Albus_Dumbledore!’ he called heartily, as he walked up the slope. ‘how are you, my dear fellow, how are you?’ ‘blooming, thank you, professor karkaroff,’ Albus_Dumbledore replied. karkaroff had a fruity, unctuous voice; when he stepped into the light pouring from the front doors of the castle, they saw that he was tall and thin like Albus_Dumbledore, but his white hair was short, and his goatee (finishing in a small curl) did not entirely hide his rather weak chin. when he reached Albus_Dumbledore, he shook hands with both of his own. ‘dear old hogwarts,’ he said, looking up at the castle and smiling; his teeth were rather yellow, and Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory that his smile did not extend to his eyes, which remained cold and shrewd. ‘how good it is to be here, how good … Viktor_Krum, come along, into the warmth … you don’t mind, Albus_Dumbledore? Viktor_Krum has a slight head cold …’ karkaroff beckoned forwards one of his students. as the boy passed, Harry_Potter caught a glimpse of a prominent, curved nose and thick black eyebrows. he didn’t need the punch on the arm Ronald_Weasley gave him, or the hiss in his ear, to recognise that profile. ‘Harry_Potter – it’s krum!’ 