— chapter four — back to the burrow by twelve o’clock next day, Harry_Potter’s trunk was packed with his school things, and all his most prized possessions – the invisibility cloak he had inherited from his father, the broomstick he had got from Sirius_Black, the enchanted map of hogwarts he had been given by Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley weasley last year. he had emptied his hiding place under the loose floorboard of all food, double- checked every nook and cranny of his bedroom for forgotten spellbooks or quills, and taken down the chart on the wall counting the days down to september the first, on which he liked to cross off the days remaining until his return to hogwarts. the atmosphere inside number four privet drive was extremely tense. the imminent arrival at their house of an assortment of wizards was making the dursleys uptight and irRita_Skeeterble. uncle Vernon_Dursley had looked downright alarmed when Harry_Potter informed him that the weasleys would be arriving at five o’clock the very next day. ‘i Hope_Howell you told them to dress properly, these people,’ he snarled at once. ‘i’ve seen the sort of stuff your lot wear. they’d better have the decency to put on normal clothes, that’s all.’ Harry_Potter felt a slight sense of foreboding. he had rarely seen mr or mrs weasley wearing anything that the dursleys would call ‘normal’. their children might don muggle clothing during the holidays, but mr and mrs weasley usually wore long robes in varying states of shabbiness. Harry_Potter wasn’t bothered about what the neighbours would think, but he was anxious about how rude the dursleys might be to the weasleys if they turned up looking like their worst idea of wizards. uncle Vernon_Dursley had put on his best suit. to some people, this might have looked like a gesture of welcome, but Harry_Potter knew it was because uncle Vernon_Dursley wanted to look impressive and intimidating. Dudley_Dursley, on the other hand, looked somehow diminished. this was not because the diet was at last taking effect, but due to fright. Dudley_Dursley had emerged from his last encounter with a fully-grown wizard with a curly pig’s tail poking out of the seat of his    trousers, and aunt Petunia_Dursley and uncle Vernon_Dursley had had to pay for its removal at a private hospital in london. it wasn’t altogether surprising, therefore, that Dudley_Dursley kept running his hand nervously over his backside, and walking sideways from room to room, so as not to present the same target to the enemy. lunch was an almost silent meal. Dudley_Dursley didn’t even protest at the food (cottage cheese and grated celery). aunt Petunia_Dursley wasn’t eating anything at all. her arms were folded, her lips were pursed and she seemed to be chewing her tongue, as though biting back the furious diatribe she longed to throw at Harry_Potter. ‘they’ll be driving, of course?’ uncle Vernon_Dursley barked across the table. ‘er,’ said Harry_Potter. he hadn’t thought of that. how were the weasleys going to pick him up? they didn’t have a car any more; the old ford anglia they had once owned was currently running wild in the forbidden forest at hogwarts. but mr weasley had borrowed a ministry of Magic_goblin car last year; possibly he would do the same today? ‘i think so,’ said Harry_Potter. uncle Vernon_Dursley snorted into his moustache. normally, uncle Vernon_Dursley would have asked what car mr weasley drove; he tended to judge other men on how big and expensive their cars were. but Harry_Potter doubted whether uncle Vernon_Dursley would have taken to mr weasley even if he drove a ferrari. Harry_Potter spent most of the afternoon in his bedroom; he couldn’t Stanley_Shunpiked watching aunt Petunia_Dursley peer out through the net curtains every few seconds, as though there had been a warning about an escaped rhinoceros. finally, at a quarter to five, Harry_Potter went back downstairs and into the living room. aunt Petunia_Dursley was compulsively straightening cushions. uncle Vernon_Dursley was pretending to read the paper, but his tiny eyes were not moving, and Harry_Potter was sure he was really listening with all his might for the sound of an approaching car. Dudley_Dursley was crammed into an armchair, his porky hands beneath him, clamped firmly around his bottom. Harry_Potter couldn’t take the tension; he left the room, and went and sat on the stairs in the hall, his eyes on his watch and his heart pumping fast from excitement and nerves. but five o’clock came and then went. uncle Vernon_Dursley, perspiring slightly in his suit, opened the front door, peered up and down the street, then withdrew his head quickly. ‘they’re late!’ he snarled at Harry_Potter. ‘i know,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘maybe – er – the traffic’s bad, or something.’ ten past five … then a quarter past five … Harry_Potter was starting to feel anxious himself now. at half past, he heard uncle Vernon_Dursley and aunt Petunia_Dursley conversing in terse mutters in the living room. ‘no consideration at all.’ ‘we might’ve had an engagement.’ ‘maybe they think they’ll get invited to dinner if they’re late.’ ‘well, they most certainly won’t be,’ said uncle Vernon_Dursley, and Harry_Potter heard him Stanley_Shunpiked up and start pacing the living room. ‘they’ll take the boy and go, there’ll be no hanging around. that’s if they’re coming at all. probably mistaken the day. i daresay their kind don’t set much store by punctuality. either that’s broken d– some that or aaaaaaaarrrrrgh!’ they drive  tinpot car  Harry_Potter jumped up. from the other side of the living-room door came the sounds of the three dursleys scrambling, panic-stricken, across the room. next moment Dudley_Dursley came flying into the hall, looking terrified. ‘what happened?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘what’s the matter?’ but Dudley_Dursley didn’t seem able to speak. hands still clamped over his buttocks, he waddled as fast as he could into the kitchen. Harry_Potter hurried into the living room. loud bangings and scrapings were coming from behind the dursleys’ boarded-up fireplace, which had a fake coal fire plugged in front of it. ‘what is it?’ gasped aunt Petunia_Dursley, who had backed into the wall and was staring, terrified, towards the fire. ‘what is it, Vernon_Dursley?’ but they were left in doubt barely a second longer. voices could be heard from inside the blocked fireplace. ‘ouch! Fred_Weasley, no – go back, go back, there’s been some kind of mistake – tell George_Weasley not to – ouch! George_Weasley, no, there’s no room, go back quickly and tellRonald_Weasley–’ ‘maybe Harry_Potter can hear us, dad – maybe he’ll be able to let us out –’ there was a loud hammering of fists on the boards behind the electric fire. ‘Harry_Potter? Harry_Potter, can you hear us?’ the dursleys rounded on Harry_Potter like a pair of angry wolverines. ‘what is this?’ growled uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘what’s going on?’ ‘they – they’ve tried to get here by floo powder,’ said Harry_Potter, fighting a mad desire to laugh. ‘they can travel by fire – only you’ve blocked the fireplace – hang on –’ he approached the fireplace and called through the boards. ‘mr weasley? can you hear me?’ the hammering stopped. somebody inside the chimney-piece said, ‘shh!’ ‘mr weasley, it’s Harry_Potter … the fireplace has been blocked up. you won’t be able to get through there.’ ‘damn!’ said mr weasley’s voice. ‘what on earth did they want to block up the fireplace for?’ ‘they’ve got an electric fire,’ Harry_Potter explained. ‘really?’ said mr weasley’s voice excitedly. ‘ecklectic, you say? with a plug? gracious, i must see that … let’s think … ouch, ron!’ ron’s voice now joined the others’. ‘what are we doing here? has something gone wrong?’ ‘oh, no, ron,’ came Fred_Weasley’s voice, very sarcastically. ‘no, this is exactly where we wanted to end up.’ ‘yeah, we’re having the time of our lives here,’ said George_Weasley, whose voice sounded muffled, as though he was squashed against the wall. ‘boys, boys …’ said mr weasley vaguely. ‘i’m trying to think what to do … yes … only way … Stanley_Shunpiked back, Harry_Potter.’ Harry_Potter retreated to the sofa. uncle Vernon_Dursley, however, moved forwards. ‘wait a moment!’ he bellowed at the fire. ‘what exactly are you going to –?’ bang. the electric fire shot across the room as the boarded-up fireplace burst outwards, expelling mr weasley, Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley andRonald_Weasleyin a cloud of rubble and loose chippings. aunt Petunia_Dursley shrieked and fell backwards over the coffee table; uncle Vernon_Dursley caught her before she hit the floor and gaped, speechless, at the weasleys, all of whom had bright red hair, including Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who were identical to the last freckle. ‘that’s better,’ panted mr weasley, brushing dust from his long green robes and straightening his glasses. ‘ah – you must be Harry_Potter’s aunt and uncle!’ Tall_goblin, thin and balding, he moved towards uncle Vernon_Dursley, his hand outstretched, but uncle Vernon_Dursley backed away several paces, dragging aunt Petunia_Dursley. words utterly failed uncle Vernon_Dursley. his best suit was covered in white dust, which had settled in his hair and moustache and made him look as though he had just aged thirty years. ‘er – yes – sorry about that,’ said mr weasley, lowering his hand and looking over his shoulder at the blasted fireplace. ‘it’s all my fault, it just didn’t occur to me that we wouldn’t be able to get out at the other end. i had your fireplace connected to the floo network, you see – just for an afternoon, you know, so we could get Harry_Potter. muggle fireplaces aren’t supposed to be connected, strictly speaking – but i’ve got a useful contact at the floo regulation panel and he fixed it for me. i can put it right in a jiffy, though, don’t worry. i’ll light a fire to send the boys back, and then i can repair your fireplace before i disapparate.’ Harry_Potter was ready to bet that the dursleys hadn’t understood a single word of this. they were still gaping at mr weasley, thunderstruck. aunt Petunia_Dursley staggered upright again, and hid behind uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘hello, Harry_Potter!’ said mr weasley brightly. ‘got your trunk ready?’ ‘it’s upstairs,’ said Harry_Potter, grinning back. ‘we’ll get it,’ said Fred_Weasley at once. winking at Harry_Potter, he and George_Weasley left the room. they knew where Harry_Potter’s bedroom was, having once rescued him from it in the dead of night. Harry_Potter suspected that Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were hoping for a glimpse of Dudley_Dursley; they had heard a lot about him from Harry_Potter. ‘well,’ said mr weasley, swinging his arms slightly, while he tried to find words to break the very nasty silence. ‘very – erm – very nice place you’ve got here.’ as the usually spotless living room was now covered in dust and bits of brick, this remark didn’t go down too well with the dursleys. uncle Vernon_Dursley’s face purpled once more, and aunt Petunia_Dursley started chewing her tongue again. however, they seemed too scared to actually say anything. mr weasley was looking around. he loved everything to do with muggles. Harry_Potter could see him itching to go and examine the television and the video recorder. ‘they run off eckeltricity, do they?’ he said knowledgeably. ‘ah yes, i can see the plugs. i collect plugs,’ he added to uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘and batteries. got a very large collection of batteries. my wife thinks i’m mad, but there you are.’ uncle Vernon_Dursley clearly thought mr weasley was mad, too. he moved ever so slightly to the right, screening aunt Petunia_Dursley from view, as though he thought mr weasley might suddenly run at them and attack. Dudley_Dursley suddenly reappeared in the room. Harry_Potter could hear the clunk of his trunk on the stairs, and knew that the sounds had scared Dudley_Dursley out of the kitchen. Dudley_Dursley edged along the wall, gazing at mr weasley with terrified eyes, and attempted to conceal himself behind his mother and father. unfortunately, uncle Vernon_Dursley’s bulk, while sufficient to hide bony aunt Petunia_Dursley, was nowhere near enough to conceal Dudley_Dursley. ‘ah, this is your cousin, is it, Harry_Potter?’ said mr weasley, taking another brave stab at making conversation. ‘yep,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘that’s Dudley_Dursley.’ he andRonald_Weasleyexchanged glances and then quickly looked away from each other; the temptation to burst out laughing was almost overwhelming. Dudley_Dursley was still clutching his bottom as though afraid it might fall off. mr weasley, however, seemed genuinely concerned at Dudley_Dursley’s peculiar behaviour. indeed, from the tone of his voice when he next spoke, Harry_Potter was quite sure that mr weasley thought Dudley_Dursley was quite as mad as the dursleys thought he was, except that mr weasley felt sympathy rather than fear. ‘having a good holiday, Dudley_Dursley?’ he said kindly. Dudley_Dursley whimpered. Harry_Potter saw his hands tighten still harder over his massive backside. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley came back into the room, carrying Harry_Potter’s school trunk. they glanced around as they entered and spotted Dudley_Dursley. their faces cracked into identical, evil grins. ‘ah, right,’ said mr weasley. ‘better get cracking, then.’ he pushed up the sleeves of his robes and took out his wand. Harry_Potter saw the dursleys draw back against the wall as one. ‘incendio!’ said mr weasley, pointing his wand at the hole in the wall behind him. flames rose at once in the fireplace, crackling merrily as though they had been burning for hours. mr weasley took a small drawstring bag from his pocket, untied it, took a pinch of the powder inside and threw it onto the flames, which turned emerald green and roared higher than ever. ‘off you go then, Fred_Weasley,’ said mr weasley. ‘coming,’ said Fred_Weasley. ‘oh no – hang on – ’ a bag of sweets had spilled out of Fred_Weasley’s pocket and the contents were now rolling in every direction – big, fat toffees in brightly coloured wrappers. Fred_Weasley scrambled around, cramming them back into his pocket, then gave the dursleys a cheery wave, stepped forward and walked right into the fire, saying, ‘the burrow!’ aunt Petunia_Dursley gave a little shuddering gasp. there was a whooshing sound, and Fred_Weasley vanished. ‘right then, George_Weasley,’ said mr weasley, ‘you and the trunk.’ Harry_Potter helped George_Weasley carry the trunk forward into the flames, and turn it onto its end so that he could hold it better. then, with a second whoosh, George_Weasley had cried, ‘the burrow!’ and vanished too. ‘ron, you next,’ said mr weasley. ‘see you,’ saidRonald_Weasleybrightly to the dursleys. he grinned broadly at Harry_Potter, then stepped into the fire, shouted, ‘the burrow!’ and disappeared. now Harry_Potter and mr weasley alone remained. ‘well … bye then,’ Harry_Potter said to the dursleys. they didn’t say anything at all. Harry_Potter moved towards the fire, but just as he reached the edge of the hearth, mr weasley put out a hand and held him back. he was looking at the dursleys in amazement. ‘Harry_Potter said goodbye to you,’ he said. ‘didn’t you hear him?’ ‘it doesn’t matter,’ Harry_Potter muttered to mr weasley. ‘honestly, i don’t care.’ mr weasley did not remove his hand from Harry_Potter’s shoulder. ‘you aren’t going to see your nephew ’til next summer,’ he said to uncle Vernon_Dursley in mild indignation. ‘surely you’re going to say goodbye?’ uncle Vernon_Dursley’s face worked furiously. the idea of being taught consideration by a man who had just blasted away half his living-room wall seemed to be causing him intense suffering. but mr weasley’s wand was still in his hand, and uncle Vernon_Dursley’s tiny eyes darted to it once, before he said, very resentfully, ‘goodbye, then.’ ‘see you,’ said Harry_Potter, putting one foot forward into the green flames, which felt pleasantly like warm breath. at that moment, however, a horrible gagging sound erupted behind him, and aunt Petunia_Dursley started to scream. Harry_Potter wheeled around. Dudley_Dursley was no longer Stanley_Shunpikeding behind his parents. he was kneeling beside the coffee table, and he was gagging and spluttering on a foot-long, purple, slimy thing that was protruding from his mouth. one bewildered second later, Harry_Potter realised that the foot-long thing was Dudley_Dursley’s tongue – and that a brightly coloured toffee-wrapper lay on the floor before him. aunt Petunia_Dursley hurled herself onto the ground beside Dudley_Dursley, seized the end of his swollen tongue and attempted to wrench it out of his mouth; unsurprisingly, Dudley_Dursley yelled and spluttered worse than ever, trying to fight her off. uncle Vernon_Dursley was bellowing and waving his arms around, and mr weasley had to shout to make himself heard. ‘not to worry, i can sort him out!’ he yelled, advancing on Dudley_Dursley with his wand outstretched, but aunt Petunia_Dursley screamed worse than ever and threw herself on top of Dudley_Dursley, shielding him from mr weasley. ‘no, really!’ said mr weasley desperately. ‘it’s a simple process – it was the toffee – my son Fred_Weasley – real practical joker – but it’s only an engorgement charm – at least, i think it is – please, i can correct it –’ but far from being reassured, the dursleys became more panic-stricken; aunt Petunia_Dursley was sobbing hystEric_Munchally, tugging Dudley_Dursley’s tongue as though determined to rip it out; Dudley_Dursley appeared to be suffocating under the combined pressure of his mother and his tongue, and uncle Vernon_Dursley, who had lost control completely, seized a china figure from on top of the sideboard, and threw it very hard at mr weasley, who ducked, causing the ornament to shatter in the blasted fireplace. ‘now really!’ said mr weasley, angrily, brandishing his wand. ‘i’m trying to help!’ bellowing like a wounded hippo, uncle Vernon_Dursley snatched up another ornament. ‘Harry_Potter, go! just go!’ mr weasley shouted, his wand on uncle Vernon_Dursley. ‘i’ll sort this out!’ Harry_Potter didn’t want to miss the fun, but uncle Vernon_Dursley’s second ornament narrowly missed his left ear, and on balance he thought it best to leave the situation to mr weasley. he stepped into the fire, looking over his shoulder as he said, ‘the burrow!’; his last fleeting glimpse of the living room was of mr weasley blasting a third ornament out of uncle Vernon_Dursley’s hand with his wand, aunt Petunia_Dursley screaming and lying on top of Dudley_Dursley, and Dudley_Dursley’s tongue lolling around like a great slimy python. but next moment Harry_Potter had begun to spin very fast, and the dursleys’ living room was whipped out of sight in a rush of emerald green flames. 