— chapter six — the portkey Harry_Potter felt as though he had barely lain down to sleep in ron’s room when he was being shaken awake by Molly_Weasley. ‘time to go, Harry_Potter, dear,’ she whispered, moving away to wake Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter felt around for his glasses, put them on and sat up. it was still dark outside. Ronald_Weasley muttered indistinctly as his mother roused him. at the foot of Harry_Potter’s mattress he saw two large, dishevelled shapes emerging from tangles of blankets. ‘’s’time already?’ said Fred_Weasley groggily. they dressed in silence, too sleepy to talk, then, yawning and stretching, the four of them headed downstairs into the kitchen. Molly_Weasley was stirring the contents of a large pot on the stove, while Arthur_Weasley was sitting at the table, checking a sheaf of large parchment tickets. he looked up as the boys entered, and spread his arms so that they could see his clothes more clearly. he was wearing what appeared to be a golfing jumper and a very old pair of jeans, slightly too big for him and held up with a thick leather belt. ‘what d’you think?’ he asked anxiously. ‘we’re supposed to go incognito – do i look like a muggle, Harry_Potter?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, smiling, ‘very good.’ ‘where’re William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley and per–per–Percy_Weasley?’ said George_Weasley, failing to stifle a huge yawn. ‘well, they’re apparating, aren’t they?’ said Molly_Weasley, heaving the large pot over to the table and starting to ladle porridge into bowls. ‘so they can have a bit of a lie-in.’ Harry_Potter knew that apparating was very difficult; it meant disappearing from one place and reappearing almost instantly in another. ‘so they’re still in bed?’ said Fred_Weasley grumpily, pulling his bowl of porridge towards him. ‘why can’t we apparate, too?’ ‘because you’re not of age and you haven’t got your test,’ snapped mrs    weasley. ‘and where have those girls got to?’ she bustled out of the kitchen and they heard her climbing the stairs. ‘you have to pass a test to apparate?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘oh yes,’ said Arthur_Weasley, tucking the tickets safely into the back pocket of his jeans. ‘the department of magical transportation had to fine a couple of people the other day for apparating without a licence. it’s not easy, apparition, and when it’s not done properly it can lead to nasty complications. this pair i’m talking about went and splinched themselves.’ everyone around the table except Harry_Potter winCedric_Diggory. ‘er – splinched?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘they left half of themselves behind,’ said Arthur_Weasley, now spooning large amounts of treacle onto his porridge. ‘so, of course, they were stuck. couldn’t move either way. had to wait for the accidental magic reversal squad to sort them out. meant a fair old bit of paperwork, i can tell you, what with the muggles who spotted the body parts they’d left behind …’ Harry_Potter had a sudden vision of a pair of legs and an eyeball lying abandoned on the pavement of privet drive. ‘were they ok?’ he asked, startled. ‘oh yes,’ said Arthur_Weasley matter-of-factly. ‘but they got a heavy fine, and i don’t think they’ll be trying it again in a hurry. you don’t mess around with apparition. there are plenty of adult wizards who don’t bother with it. prefer brooms – slower, but safer.’ ‘but William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley and Percy_Weasley can all do it?’ ‘Charles_Weasley had to take the test twice,’ said Fred_Weasley, grinning. ‘he failed first time, apparated five Miles_Bletchley south of where he meant to, right on top of some poor old dear doing her shopping, remember?’ ‘yes, well, he passed second time,’ said Molly_Weasley, marching back into the kitchen amid hearty sniggers. ‘Percy_Weasley only passed two weeks ago,’ said George_Weasley. ‘he’s been apparating downstairs every morning since, just to prove he can.’ there were footsteps down the passageway and Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley came into the kitchen, both looking pale and drowsy. ‘why do we have to be up so early?’ Ginevra_Weasley said, rubbing her eyes and sitting down at the table. ‘we’ve got a bit of a walk,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘walk?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘what, are we walking to the world cup?’ ‘no, no, that’s Miles_Bletchley away,’ said Arthur_Weasley, smiling. ‘we only need to walk a short way. it’s just that it’s very difficult for a large number of wizards to congregate without attracting muggle attention. we have to be very careful about how we travel at the best of times, and on a huge occasion like the quidditch world cup –’ ‘George_Weasley!’ said Molly_Weasley sharply, and they all jumped. ‘what?’ said George_Weasley, in an innocent tone that deceived nobody. ‘what is that in your pocket?’ ‘nothing!’ ‘don’t you lie to me!’ Molly_Weasley pointed her wand at George_Weasley’s pocket and said, ‘accio!’ several small, brightly coloured objects zoomed out of George_Weasley’s pocket; he made a grab for them but missed, and they sped right into Molly_Weasley’s outstretched hand. ‘we told you to desTroy them!’ said Molly_Weasley furiously, holding up what were unmistakeably more ton-tongue toffees. ‘we told you to get rid of the lot! empty your pockets, go on, both of you!’ it was an unpleasant scene; the twins had evidently been trying to smuggle as many toffees out of the house as possible, and it was only by using her summoning charm that Molly_Weasley managed to find them all. ‘accio! accio! accio!’ she shouted, and toffees zoomed from all sorts of unlikely places, including the lining of George_Weasley’s Jack_Sloperet and the turn-ups of Fred_Weasley’s jeans. ‘we spent six months developing those!’ Fred_Weasley shouted at his mother, as she threw the toffees away. ‘oh, a fine way to spend six months!’ she shrieked. ‘no wonder you didn’t get more o.w.ls!’ all in all, the atmosphere was not very friendly as they made their departure. Molly_Weasley was still glowering as she kissed Arthur_Weasley on the cheek, though not nearly as much as the twins, who had each hoisted their rucksacks onto their backs and walked out without a word to her. ‘well, have a lovely time,’ said Molly_Weasley, ‘and behave yourselves,’ she called after the twins’ retreating backs, but they did not look back or answer. ‘i’ll send bill, Charles_Weasley and Percy_Weasley along around midday,’ Molly_Weasley said to Arthur_Weasley, as he, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley set off across the dark yard after Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. it was chilly and the moon was still out. only a dull, greenish tinge along the horizon to their right showed that daybreak was drawing closer. Harry_Potter, having been thinking about thousands of wizards speeding towards the quidditch world cup, sped up to walk with Arthur_Weasley. ‘so how does everyone get there without all the muggles noticing?’ he asked. ‘it’s been a massive organisational problem,’ sighed Arthur_Weasley. ‘the trouble is, about a hundred thousand wizards turn up to the world cup, and of course we just haven’t got a magical site big enough to accommodate them all. there are places muggles can’t penetrate, but imagine trying to pack a hundred thousand wizards into diagon alley or platform nine and three- quarters. so we had to find a nice deserted moor, and set up as many anti- muggle precautions as possible. the whole ministry’s been working on it for months. firstly, of course, we have to stagger the arrivals. people with cheaper tickets have to arrive two weeks beforehand. a limited number use muggle transport, but we can’t have too many clogging up their buses and trains – remember, wizards are coming from all over the world. some apparate, of course, but we have to set up safe points for them to appear, well away from muggles. i believe there’s a handy wood they’re using as the apparition point. for those who don’t want to apparate, or can’t, we use portkeys. they’re objects that are used to transport wizards from one spot to another at a prearranged time. you can do large groups at a time if you need to. there have been two hundred portkeys plaCedric_Diggory at strategic points around bRita_Skeeterin, and the nearest one to us is up the top of stoatshead hill, so that’s where we’re headed.’ Arthur_Weasley pointed ahead of them, where a large black mass rose beyond the village of ottery st catchpole. ‘what sort of objects are portkeys?’ said Harry_Potter curiously. ‘well, they can be anything,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘unobtrusive things, obviously, so muggles don’t go picking them up and playing with them … stuff they’ll just think is litter …’ they trudged down the dark, dank lane towards the village, the silence broken only by their footsteps. the sky lightened very slowly as they made their way through the village, its inky blackness diluting to deepest blue. Harry_Potter’s hands and feet were freezing. Arthur_Weasley kept checking his watch. they didn’t have breath to spare for talking as they began to climb stoatshead hill, stumbling occasionally in hidden rabbit holes, slipping on thick black tuffets of grass. each breath Harry_Potter took was sharp in his chest, and his legs were starting to seize up when at last his feet found level ground. ‘whew,’ panted Arthur_Weasley, taking off his glasses and wiping them on his sweater. ‘well, we’ve made good time – we’ve got ten minutes …’ Hermione_Granger came over the crest of the hill last, clutching a stitch in her side. ‘now we just need the portkey,’ said Arthur_Weasley, replacing his glasses and squinting around at the ground. ‘it won’t be big … come on …’ they spread out, searching. they had only been at it for a couple of minutes, however, when a shout rent the still air. ‘over here, Arthur_Weasley! over here, son, we’ve got it!’ two tall figures were silhouetted against the starry sky on the other side of the hilltop. ‘Amos_Diggory!’ said Arthur_Weasley, smiling as he strode over to the man who had shouted. the rest of them followed. Arthur_Weasley was shaking hands with a ruddy-faCedric_Diggory wizard with a scrubby brown beard, who was holding a mouldy-looking old boot in his other hand. ‘this is Amos_Diggory, everyone,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘works for the department for the regulation and control of magical creatures. and i think you know his son, Cedric_Diggory?’ Cedric_Diggory was an extremely handsome boy of around seventeen. he was captain and seeker of the hufflepuff house quidditch team at hogwarts. ‘hi,’ said Cedric_Diggory, looking around at them all. everybody said ‘hi’ back except Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, who merely nodded. they had never quite forgiven Cedric_Diggory for beating their team, gryffindor, in the first quidditch match of the previous year. ‘long walk, Arthur_Weasley?’ Cedric_Diggory’s father asked. ‘not too bad,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘we live just on the other side of the village there. you?’ ‘had to get up at two, didn’t we, Cedric_Diggory? i tell you, i’ll be glad when he’s got his apparition test. still … not complaining … quidditch world cup, wouldn’t miss it for a sackful of galleons – and the tickets cost about that. mind you, looks like i got off easy …’ Amos_Diggory peered good-naturedly around at the three weasley boys, Harry_Potter, Hermione_Granger and Ginevra_Weasley. ‘all these yours, Arthur_Weasley?’ ‘oh, no, only the redheads,’ said Arthur_Weasley, pointing out his children. ‘this is Hermione_Granger, friend of ron’s – and Harry_Potter, another friend –’ ‘merlin’s beard,’ said Amos_Diggory, his eyes widening. ‘Harry_Potter? Harry_Potter?’ ‘er – yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. Harry_Potter was used to people looking curiously at him when they met him, used to the way their eyes moved at once to the Harry_Potter scar on his forehead, but it always made him feel uncomfortable. ‘Cedric_Diggory’s talked about you, of course,’ said Amos_Diggory. ‘told us all about playing against you last year … i said to him, i said – Cedric_Diggory, that’ll be something to tell your grandchildren, that will … you beat Harry_Potter!’ Harry_Potter couldn’t think of any reply to this, so he remained silent. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were both scowling again. Cedric_Diggory looked slightly embarrassed. ‘Harry_Potter fell off his broom, dad,’ he muttered. ‘i told you … it was an accident …’ ‘yes, but you didn’t fall off, did you?’ roared Amos_Diggory genially, slapping his son on his back. ‘always modest, our Cedric_Diggory, always the gentleman … but the best man won, i’m sure Harry_Potter’d say the same, wouldn’t you, eh? one falls off his broom, one stays on, you don’t need to be a genius to tell which one’s the better flier!’ ‘must be nearly time,’ said Arthur_Weasley quickly, pulling out his watch again. ‘do you know whether we’re waiting for any more, Amos_Diggory?’ ‘no, the lovegoods have been there for a week already and the Fawcetts couldn’t get tickets,’ said mr diggory. ‘there aren’t any more of us in this area, are there?’ ‘not that i know of,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘yes, it’s a minute off … we’d better get ready …’ he looked around at Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger.‘you just need to touch the portkey, that’s all, a finger will do –’ with difficulty, owing to the bulky backpacks, the nine of them crowded around the old boot held out by Amos_Diggory. they all stood there, in a tight circle, as a chill breeze swept over the hilltop. nobody spoke. it suddenly occurred to Harry_Potter how odd this would look if a muggle were to walk up here now … nine people, two grown men, clutching this manky old boot in the semi-darkness, waiting … ‘three …’ muttered Arthur_Weasley, one eye still on his watch, ‘two … one …’ it happened immediately: Harry_Potter felt as though a hook just behind his navel had been suddenly jerked irresistibly forwards. his feet had left the ground; he could feel Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger on either side of him, their shoulders banging into his; they were all speeding forwards in a howl of wind and swirling colour; his forefinger was stuck to the boot as though it was pulling him magnetically onwards and then – his feet slammed into the ground; Ronald_Weasley staggered into him and he fell over; the portkey hit the ground near his head with a heavy thud. Harry_Potter looked up. Arthur_Weasley, mr diggory and Cedric_Diggory were still standing, though looking very windswept; everybody else was on the ground. ‘seven past five from stoatshead hill,’ said a voice. 