— chapter twelve — the triwizard tournament through the gates, flanked with statues of winged boars, and up the sweeping drive the carriages trundled, swaying dangerously in what was fast becoming a gale. leaning against the window, Harry_Potter could see hogwarts coming nearer, its many lighted windows blurred and shimmering behind the thick curtain of rain. Harry_Potter flashed across the sky as their carriage came to a halt before the great oak front doors, which stood at the top of a flight of stone steps. people who had occupied the carriages in front were already hurrying up the stone steps into the castle; Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger and Neville_Longbottom jumped down from their carriage and dashed up the steps too, looking up only when they were safely inside the cavernous, torch-lit entrance hall, with its magnificent marble staircase. ‘blimey,’ said Ronald_Weasley shaking his head and sending water everywhere, ‘if that keeps up, the lake’s going to overflow. i’m soak– argh!’ a large, red, water-filled balloon had dropped from out of the ceiling onto ron’s head, and exploded. drenched and spluttering, Ronald_Weasley staggered sideways into Harry_Potter, just as a second water bomb dropped – narrowly missing Hermione_Granger, it burst at Harry_Potter’s feet, sending a wave of cold water over his trainers into his socks. people all around them shrieked and started pushing each other in their efforts to get out of the line of fire – Harry_Potter looked up, and saw, floating twenty feet above them, Peeves the poltergeist, a little man in a bell-covered hat and orange bow-tie, his wide, malicious face contorted with concentration as he took aim again. ‘Peeves!’ yelled an angry voice. ‘Peeves, come down here at once!’ professor Minerva_McGonagall, deputy headmistress and head of gryffindor house, had come dashing out of the great hall; she skidded on the wet floor and grabbed Hermione_Granger around the neck to stop herself falling. ‘ouch – sorry, miss granger –’ ‘that’s all right, professor!’ Hermione_Granger gasped, massaging her throat. ‘Peeves, get down here now!’ barked professor Minerva_McGonagall, straightening her pointed hat and glaring upwards through her square-rimmed    spectacles. ‘not doing nothing!’ cackled Peeves, lobbing a water bomb at several fifth- year girls, who screamed and dived into the great hall. ‘already wet, aren’t they? little squirts! wheeeeeeeeee!’ and he aimed another bomb at a group of second-years who had just arrived. ‘i shall call the headmaster!’ shouted professor Minerva_McGonagall. ‘i’m warning you, Peeves –’ Peeves stuck out his tongue, threw the last of his water bombs into the air, and zoomed off up the marble staircase, cackling insanely. ‘well, move along, then!’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall sharply to the bedraggled crowd. ‘into the great hall, come on!’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger slipped and slid across the entrance hall and through the double doors on the right, Ronald_Weasley muttering furiously under his breath as he pushed his sopping hair off his face. the great hall looked its usual splendid self, decorated for the start-of- term feast. golden plates and goblets gleamed by the light of hundreds and hundreds of candles, floating over the tables in mid-air. the four long house tables were packed with chattering students; at the top of the hall, the staff sat along one side of a fifth table, facing their pupils. it was much warmer in here. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger walked past the slytherins, the ravenclaws and the hufflepuffs, and sat down with the rest of the gryffindors at the far side of the hall, next to Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, the gryffindor ghost. pearly white and semi-transparent, Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington was dressed tonight in his usual doublet, with a particularly large ruff, which served the dual purpose of looking extra festive and ensuring that his head didn’t wobble too much on his partially severed neck. ‘good evening,’ he said, beaming at them. ‘says who?’ said Harry_Potter, taking off his trainers and emptying them of water. ‘Hope_Howell they hurry up with the sorting, i’m starving.’ the sorting of the new students into houses took place at the start of every school year, but by an unlucky combination of circumstances, Harry_Potter hadn’t been present at one since his own. he was quite looking forward to it. just then, a highly excited, breathless voice called down the table, ‘hiya, Harry_Potter!’ it was Colin_Creevey, a third-year to whom Harry_Potter was something of a hero. ‘hi, Colin_Creevey,’ said Harry_Potter warily. ‘Harry_Potter, guess what? guess what, Harry_Potter? my brother’s starting! my brother Dennis_Creevey!’ ‘er – good,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s really excited!’ said Colin_Creevey, practically bouncing up and down in his seat. ‘i just Hope_Howell he’s in gryffindor! keep your fingers crossed, eh, Harry_Potter?’ ‘er – yeah, all right,’ said Harry_Potter. he turned back to Hermione_Granger, Ronald_Weasley and Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘brothers and sisters usually go in the same houses, don’t they?’ he said. he was judging by the weasleys, all seven of whom had been put into gryffindor. ‘oh, no, not necessarily,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘Parvati_Patil’s twin’s in ravenclaw, and they’re identical, you’d think they’d be together, wouldn’t you?’ Harry_Potter looked up at the staff table. there seemed to be rather more empty seats there than usual. Rubeus_Hagrid, of course, was still fighting his way across the lake with the first-years; professor Minerva_McGonagall was presumably supervising the drying of the entrance hall floor, but there was another empty chair, too, and he couldn’t think who else was missing. ‘where’s the new defence against the dark arts teacher?’ said Hermione_Granger, who was also looking up at the teachers. they had never yet had a defence against the dark arts teacher who had lasted more than three terms. Harry_Potter’s favourite by far had been professor lupin, who had resigned last year. he looked up and down the staff table. there was definitely no new face there. ‘maybe they couldn’t get anyone!’ said Hermione_Granger, looking anxious. Harry_Potter scanned the table more carefully. tiny little professor flitwick, the charms teacher, was sitting on a large pile of cushions beside professor sprout, the herbology teacher, whose hat was askew over her flyaway grey hair. she was talking to professor Aurora_Sinistra of the astronomy department. on professor Aurora_Sinistra’s other side was the sallow-faced, hook-nosed, greasy- haired potions master, snape – Harry_Potter’s least favourite person at hogwarts. Harry_Potter’s loathing of snape was matched only by snape’s hatred of him, a hatred which had, if possible, intensified last year, when Harry_Potter had helped Sirius_Black escape right under snape’s overlarge nose – snape and Sirius_Black had been enemies since their own schooldays. on snape’s other side was an empty seat, which Harry_Potter guessed was professor Minerva_McGonagall’s. next to it, and in the very centre of the table, sat professor Albus_Dumbledore, the headmaster, his sweeping silver hair and beard shining in the candlelight, his magnificent deep-green robes embroidered with many stars and moons. the tips of Albus_Dumbledore’s long, thin fingers were together and he was resting his chin upon them, staring up at the ceiling through his half-moon spectacles as though lost in thought. Harry_Potter glanced up at the ceiling, too. it was enchanted to look like the sky outside, and he had never seen it look this stormy. black and purple clouds were swirling across it, and as another thunderclap sounded outside, a fork of Harry_Potter flashed across it. ‘oh, hurry up,’ Ronald_Weasley moaned, beside Harry_Potter. ‘i could eat a hippogriff.’ the words were no sooner out of his mouth than the doors of the great hall opened, and silence fell. professor Minerva_McGonagall was leading a long line of first-years up to the top of the hall. if Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were wet, it was nothing to how these first-years looked. they appeared to have swum across the lake rather than sailing. all of them were shivering with a combination of cold and nerves as they filed along the staff table and came to a halt in a line facing the rest of the school – all of them except the smallest of the lot, a boy with mousey hair, who was wrapped in what Harry_Potter recognised as Rubeus_Hagrid’s moleskin overcoat. the coat was so big for him that it looked as though he was draped in a furry black marquee. his small face protruded from over the collar, looking almost painfully excited. when he had lined up with his terrified-looking peers, he caught Colin_Creevey’s eye, gave a double thumbs-up and mouthed, ‘i fell in the lake!’ he looked positively delighted about it. professor Minerva_McGonagall now placed a three-legged stool on the ground before the first-years and, on top of it, an extremely old, dirty, patched wizard’s hat. the first-years stared at it. so did everyone else. for a moment, there was silence. then a tear near the brim opened wide like a mouth, and the hat broke into song: ‘a thousand years or more ago, when i was newly sewn, there lived four wizards of renown, whose names are still well known: bold gryffindor, from wild moor, fair ravenclaw, from glen, sweet hufflepuff, from valley broad, shrewd slytherin, from fen. they shared a wish, a Hope_Howell, a dream, they hatched a daring plan to educate young sorcerers  thus hogwarts school began. now each of these four founders formed their own house, for each did value different virtues in the ones they had to teach. by gryffindor, the bravest were prized far beyond the rest; for ravenclaw, the cleverest would always be the best; for hufflepuff, hard workers were most worthy of admission; and power-hungry slytherin loved those of great ambition. while still alive they did divide their favourites from the throng, yet how to pick the worthy ones when they were dead and gone? ’twas gryffindor who found the way, he whipped me off his head the founders put some brains in me so i could choose instead! now slip me snug about your ears, i’ve never yet been wrong, i’ll have a look inside your mind and tell where you belong!’ the great hall rang with applause as the sorting hat finished. ‘that’s not the song it sang when it sorted us,’ said Harry_Potter, clapping along with everyone else. ‘sings a different one every year,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘it’s got to be a pretty boring life, hasn’t it, being a hat? i suppose it spends all year making up the next one.’ professor Minerva_McGonagall was now unrolling a large scroll of parchment. ‘when i call out your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool,’ she told the first-years. ‘when the hat announces your house, you will go and  sit at the appropriate table. ‘ackerley, Stewart_Ackerley!’ a boy walked forward, visibly trembling from head to foot, picked up the sorting hat, put it on and sat down on the stool. ‘ravenclaw!’ shouted the hat. Stewart_Ackerley took off the hat and hurried into a seat at the ravenclaw table, where everyone was applauding him. Harry_Potter caught a glimpse of cho, the ravenclaw seeker, cheering Stewart_Ackerley as he sat down. for a fleeting second, Harry_Potter had a strange desire to join the ravenclaw table too. ‘baddock, malcolm!’ ‘slytherin!’ the table on the other side of the hall erupted with cheers; Harry_Potter could see malfoy clapping as baddock joined the slytherins. Harry_Potter wondered whether baddock knew that slytherin house had turned out more dark witches and wizards than any other. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley hissed malcolm baddock as he sat down. ‘branstone, Eleanor_Branstone!’ ‘hufflepuff!’ ‘cauldwell, Owen_Cauldwell!’ ‘hufflepuff!’ ‘creevey, Dennis_Creevey!’ tiny Dennis_Creevey staggered forward, tripping over Rubeus_Hagrid’s moleskin, just as Rubeus_Hagrid himself sidled into the hall through a door behind the teachers’ table. about twice as tall as a normal man, and at least three times as broad, Rubeus_Hagrid, with his long, wild, tangled black hair and beard, looked slightly alarming – a misleading impression, for Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger knew Rubeus_Hagrid to possess a very kind nature. he winked at them as he sat down at the end of the staff table, and watched Dennis_Creevey putting on the sorting hat. the rip at the brim opened wide – ‘gryffindor!’ the hat shouted. Rubeus_Hagrid clapped along with the gryffindors, as Dennis_Creevey, beaming widely, took off the hat, placed it back on the stool, and hurried over to join his brother. ‘Colin_Creevey, i fell in!’ he said shrilly, throwing himself into an empty seat. ‘it was brilliant! and something in the water grabbed me and pushed me back in the boat!’ ‘cool!’ said Colin_Creevey, just as excitedly. ‘it was probably the giant squid, Dennis_Creevey!’ ‘wow!’ said Dennis_Creevey, as though nobody in their wildest dreams could Hope_Howell for more than being thrown into a storm-tossed, fathoms-deep lake, and pushed out of it again by a giant sea-monster. ‘Dennis_Creevey! Dennis_Creevey! see that boy down there? the one with the black hair and glasses? see him? know who he is, Dennis_Creevey?’ Harry_Potter looked away, staring very hard at the sorting hat, now sorting Emma_Dobbs. the sorting continued; boys and girls with varying degrees of fright on their faces moving, one by one, to the three-legged stool, the line dwindling slowly as professor Minerva_McGonagall passed the ‘l’s. ‘oh, hurry up,’ Ronald_Weasley moaned, massaging his stomach. ‘now, Ronald_Weasley the sorting’s much more important than food,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, as ‘madley, Laura_Madley!’ became a hufflepuff. ‘’course it is, if you’re dead,’ snapped Ronald_Weasley ‘i do Hope_Howell this year’s batch of gryffindors are up to scratch,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, applauding as ‘mcdonald, Natalie_McDonald!’ joined the gryffindor table. ‘we don’t want to break our winning streak, do we?’ gryffindor had won the inter-house championship for the last three years in a row. ‘Graham_Pritchard, graham!’ ‘slytherin!’ ‘quirke, Orla_Quirke!’ ‘ravenclaw!’ and finally, with ‘whitby, Kevin_Whitby!’ (‘hufflepuff!’) the sorting ended. professor Minerva_McGonagall picked up the hat and the stool, and carried them away. ‘about time,’ said Ronald_Weasley seizing his knife and fork and looking expectantly at his golden plate. professor Albus_Dumbledore had got to his feet. he was smiling around at the students, his arms opened wide in welcome. ‘i have only two words to say to you,’ he told them, his deep voice echoing around the hall. ‘tuck in.’ ‘hear, hear!’ said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley loudly, as the empty dishes filled magically before their eyes. Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington watched mournfully as Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger loaded their plates. ‘aaah, ’at’s be’er,’ said Ronald_Weasley with his mouth full of mashed potato. ‘you’re lucky there’s a feast at all tonight, you know,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘there was trouble in the kitchens earlier.’ ‘why? wha’ ’appened?’ said Harry_Potter, through a sizeable chunk of steak. ‘Peeves, of course,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, shaking his head, which wobbled dangerously. he pulled his ruff a little higher up his neck. ‘the usual argument, you know. he wanted to attend the feast – well, it’s quite out of the question, you know what he’s like, utterly uncivilised, can’t see a plate of food without throwing it. we held a ghosts’ council – the Fat_Friar was all for giving him the chance – but most wisely, in my opinion, the Bloody_Baron put his foot down.’ the Bloody_Baron was the slytherin ghost, a gaunt and silent spectre covered in silver bloodstains. he was the only person at hogwarts who could really control Peeves. ‘yeah, we thought Peeves seemed hacked off about something,’ said Ronald_Weasley darkly. ‘so what did he do in the kitchens?’ ‘oh, the usual,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, shrugging. ‘wreaked havoc and mayhem. pots and pans everywhere. place swimming in soup. terrified the house-elves out of their wits –’ clang. Hermione_Granger had knocked over her golden goblet. pumpkin juice spread steadily over the tablecloth, staining several feet of white linen orange, but Hermione_Granger paid no attention. ‘there are house-elves here?’ she said, staring, horror-struck, at Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘here at hogwarts?’ ‘certainly,’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington, looking surprised at her reaction. ‘the largest number in any dwelling in bRita_Skeeterin, i believe. over a hundred.’ ‘i’ve never seen one!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘well, they hardly ever leave the kitchen by day, do they?’ said Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington. ‘they come out at night to do a bit of cleaning … see to the fires and so on … i mean, you’re not supposed to see them, are you? that’s the mark of a good house-elf, isn’t it, that you don’t know it’s there?’ Hermione_Granger stared at him. ‘but they get paid?’ she said. ‘they get holidays, don’t they? and – and sick leave, and pensions and everything?’ Nicholas_de_Mimsy-Porpington chortled so much that his ruff slipped and his head flopped off, dangling on the inch or so of ghostly skin and muscle that still attached it to his neck. ‘sick leave and pensions?’ he said, pushing his head back onto his shoulders and securing it once more with his ruff. ‘house-elves don’t want sick leave and pensions!’ Hermione_Granger looked down at her hardly touched plate of food, then put her knife and fork down upon it and pushed it away from her. ‘oh, c’mon, ’er-my-knee,’ said Ronald_Weasley accidentally spraying Harry_Potter with bits of yorkshire pudding. ‘oops – sorry, ’arry –’ he swallowed. ‘you won’t get them sick leave by starving yourself!’ ‘slave labour,’ said Hermione_Granger, breathing hard through her nose. ‘that’s what made this dinner. slave labour.’ and she refused to eat another bite. the rain was still drumming heavily against the high, dark windows. another clap of thunder shook the windows, and the stormy ceiling flashed, illuminating the golden plates as the remains of the first course vanished and were replaced, instantly, with puddings. ‘treacle tart, Hermione_Granger!’ said Ronald_Weasley deliberately wafting its smell towards her. ‘spotted dick, look! chocolate gateau!’ but Hermione_Granger gave him a look so reminiscent of professor Minerva_McGonagall that he gave up. when the puddings, too, had been demolished, and the last crumbs had faded off the plates, leaving them sparkling clean, Albus_Dumbledore got to his feet again. the buzz of chatter filling the hall ceased almost at once, so that only the howling wind and pounding rain could be heard. ‘so!’ said Albus_Dumbledore, smiling around at them all. ‘now that we are all fed and watered’ (‘hmph!’ said Hermione_Granger), ‘i must once more ask for your attention, while i give out a few notices. ‘mr filch, the caretaker, has asked me to tell you that the list of objects forbidden inside the castle has this year been extended to include screaming yo-yos, Fanged frisbees and ever-bashing boomerangs. the full list comprises some four hundred and thirty-seven items, i believe, and can be viewed in mr filch’s office, if anybody would like to check it.’ the corners of Albus_Dumbledore’s mouth twitched. he continued, ‘as ever, i would like to remind you all that the forest in the grounds is out-of-bounds to students, as is the village of hogsmeade to all below third year. ‘it is also my painful duty to inform you that the inter-house quidditch cup will not take place this year.’ ‘what?’ Harry_Potter gasped. he looked around at Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley, his fellow members of the quidditch team. they were mouthing soundlessly at Albus_Dumbledore, apparently too appalled to speak. Albus_Dumbledore continued, ‘this is due to an event that will be starting in october, and continuing throughout the school year, taking up much of the teachers’ time and energy – but i am sure you will all enjoy it immensely. i have great pleasure in announcing that this year at hogwarts –’ but at that moment, there was a deafening rumble of thunder, and the doors of the great hall banged open. a man stood in the doorway, leaning upon a long staff, shrouded in a black travelling cloak. every head in the great hall swivelled towards the stranger, suddenly brightly illuminated by a fork of Harry_Potter that flashed across the ceiling. he lowered his hood, shook out a long mane of grizzled, dark grey hair, then began to walk up towards the teachers’ table. a dull clunk echoed through the hall on his every other step. he reached the end of the top table, turned right and limped heavily towards Albus_Dumbledore. another flash of Harry_Potter crossed the ceiling. Hermione_Granger gasped. the Harry_Potter had thrown the man’s face into sharp relief, and it was a face unlike any Harry_Potter had ever seen. it looked as though it had been carved out of weathered wood by someone who had only the vaguest idea of what human faces were supposed to look like, and was none too skilled with a chisel. every inch of skin seemed to be scarred. the mouth looked like a diagonal gash, and a large chunk of the nose was missing. but it was the man’s eyes that made him frightening. one of them was small, dark and beady. the other was large, round as a coin, and a vivid, electric blue. the blue eye was moving ceaselessly, without blinking, and was rolling up, down and from side to side, quite independently of the normal eye – and then it rolled right over, pointing into the back of the man’s head, so that all they could see was whiteness. the stranger reached Albus_Dumbledore. he stretched out a hand that was as badly scarred as his face, and Albus_Dumbledore shook it, muttering words Harry_Potter couldn’t hear. he seemed to be making some enquiry of the stranger, who shook his head unsmilingly and replied in an undertone. Albus_Dumbledore nodded, and gestured the man to the empty seat on his right-hand side. the stranger sat down, shook his mane of dark grey hair out of his face, pulled a plate of sausages towards him, raised it to what was left of his nose and sniffed it. he then took a small knife out of his pocket, speared a sausage on the end of it, and began to eat. his normal eye was fixed upon the sausages, but the blue eye was still darting restlessly around in its socket, taking in the hall and the students. ‘may i introduce our new defence against the dark arts teacher,’ said Albus_Dumbledore brightly, into the silence. ‘professor moody.’ it was usual for new staff members to be greeted with applause, but none of the staff or students clapped except Albus_Dumbledore and Rubeus_Hagrid. both put their hands together and applauded, but the sound echoed dismally into the silence, and they stopped fairly quickly. everyone else seemed too transfixed by moody’s bizarre appearance to do more than stare at him. ‘moody?’ Harry_Potter muttered to Ronald_Weasley ‘ Alastor_Moody moody? the one your dad went to help this morning?’ ‘must be,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a low, awed voice. ‘what happened to him?’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘what happened to his face?’ ‘dunno,’ Ronald_Weasley whispered back, watching moody with fascination. moody seemed totally indifferent to his less-than-warm welcome. ignoring the jug of pumpkin juice in front of him, he reached again into his travelling cloak, pulled out a hip-flask, and took a long draught from it. as he lifted his arm to drink, his cloak was pulled a few inches from the ground, and Harry_Potter saw, below the table, several inches of carved wooden leg, ending in a clawed foot. Albus_Dumbledore cleared his throat again. ‘as i was saying,’ he said, smiling at the sea of students before him, all of whom were still gazing transfixed at Alastor_Moody moody, ‘we are to have the honour of hosting a very exciting event over the coming months, an event which has not been held for over a century. it is my very great pleasure to inform you that the triwizard tournament will be taking place at hogwarts this year.’ ‘you’re joking!’ said Fred_Weasley loudly. the tension that had filled the hall ever since moody’s arrival suddenly broke. nearly everyone laughed, and Albus_Dumbledore chuckled appreciatively. ‘i am not joking, Arthur_Weasley,’ he said, ‘though, now you mention it, i did hear an excellent one over the summer about a troll, a hag and a leprechaun who all go into a bar –’ professor Minerva_McGonagall cleared her throat loudly. ‘er – but maybe this is not the time … no …’ said Albus_Dumbledore. ‘where was i? ah yes, the triwizard tournament … well, some of you will not know what this tournament involves, so i Hope_Howell those who do know will forgive me for giving a short explanation, and allow their attention to wander freely. ‘the triwizard tournament was first established some seven hundred years ago, as a friendly competition between the three largest european schools of wizardry – hogwarts, beauxbatons and durmstrang. a champion was selected to represent each school, and the three champions competed in three magical tasks. the schools took it in turns to host the tournament once every five years, and it was generally agreed to be a most excellent way of establishing ties between young witches and wizards of different nationalities – until, that is, the death toll mounted so high that the tournament was discontinued.’ ‘death toll?’ Hermione_Granger whispered, looking alarmed. but her anxiety did not seem to be shared by the majority of students in the hall; many of them were whispering excitedly with each other, and Harry_Potter himself was far more interested in hearing more about the tournament than in worrying about deaths that had happened hundreds of years ago. ‘there have been several attempts over the centuries to reinstate the tournament,’ Albus_Dumbledore continued, ‘none of which have been very successful. however, our own departments of international magical co- operation and magical games and sports have decided the time is ripe for another attempt. we have worked hard over the summer to ensure that, this time, no champion will find himself or herself in mortal danger. ‘the heads of beauxbatons and durmstrang will be arriving with their short-listed contenders in october, and the selection of the three champions will take place at hallowe’en. an impartial judge will decide which students are most worthy to compete for the triwizard cup, the glory of their school, and a thousand galleons personal prize money.’ ‘i’m going for it!’ Fred_Weasley hissed down the table, his face lit with enthusiasm at the prospect of such glory and riches. he was not the only person who seemed to be visualising themself as hogwarts champion. at every house table, Harry_Potter could see people either gazing raptly at Albus_Dumbledore, or else whispering fervently to their neighbours. but then Albus_Dumbledore spoke again, and the hall quietened once more. ‘eager though i know all of you will be to bring the triwizard cup to hogwarts,’ he said, ‘the heads of the participating schools, along with the ministry of magic, have agreed to impose an age restriction on contenders this year. only students who are of age – that is to say, seventeen years or older – will be allowed to put forward their names for consideration. this’ – Albus_Dumbledore raised his voice slightly, for several people had made noises of outrage at these words, and the weasley twins were suddenly looking furious – ‘is a measure we feel is necessary, given that the tournament tasks will still be difficult and dangerous, whatever precautions we take, and it is highly unlikely that students below sixth and seventh year will be able to cope with them. i will personally be ensuring that no underage student hoodwinks our impartial judge into making them hogwarts champion.’ his light-blue eyes twinkled as they flickered over Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s mutinous faces. ‘i therefore beg you not to waste your time submitting yourself if you are under seventeen. ‘the delegations from beauxbatons and durmstrang will be arriving in october, and remaining with us for the greater part of this year. i know that you will all extend every courtesy to our foreign guests while they are with us, and will give your whole-hearted support to the hogwarts champion when he or she is selected. and now, it is late, and i know how important it is to you all to be alert and rested as you enter your lessons tomorrow morning. bedtime! chop chop!’ Albus_Dumbledore sat down again and turned to talk to Alastor_Moody moody. there was a great scraping and banging as all the students got to their feet, and swarmed towards the double doors into the entrance hall. ‘they can’t do that!’ said Fred_Weasley, who had not joined the crowd moving towards the door, but was standing up and glaring at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘we’re seventeen in april, why can’t we have a shot?’ ‘they’re not stopping me entering,’ said Fred_Weasley stubbornly, also scowling at the top table. ‘the champions’ll get to do all sorts of stuff you’d never be allowed to do normally. and a thousand galleons prize money!’ ‘yeah,’ said Ronald_Weasley a faraway look on his face. ‘yeah, a thousand galleons …’ ‘come on,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘we’ll be the only ones left here if you don’t move.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley set off for the entrance hall, Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley debating the ways in which Albus_Dumbledore might stop those who were under seventeen entering the tournament. ‘who’s this impartial judge who’s going to decide who the champions are?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘dunno,’ said Fred_Weasley, ‘but it’s them we’ll have to fool. i reckon a couple of drops of ageing potion might do it, George_Weasley …’ ‘Albus_Dumbledore knows you’re not of age, though,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘yeah, but he’s not the one who decides who the champion is, is he?’ said Fred_Weasley shrewdly. ‘sounds to me like once this judge knows who wants to enter, he’ll choose the best from each school and never mind how old they are. Albus_Dumbledore’s trying to stop us giving our names.’ ‘people have died, though!’ said Hermione_Granger in a worried voice, as they walked through a door concealed behind a tapestry and started up another, narrower staircase. ‘yeah,’ said Fred_Weasley airily, ‘but that was years ago, wasn’t it? anyway, where’s the fun without a bit of risk? hey, Ronald_Weasley what if we find out how to get round Albus_Dumbledore? fancy entering?’ ‘what d’you reckon?’ Ronald_Weasley asked Harry_Potter. ‘be cool to enter, wouldn’t it? but i s’pose they might want someone older … dunno if we’ve learnt enough …’ ‘i definitely haven’t,’ came Neville_Longbottom’s Gloomy_nuns voice from behind Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley. ‘i expect my gran’d want me to try, though, she’s always going on about how i should be upholding the family honour. i’ll just have to – ooops …’ Neville_Longbottom’s foot had sunk right through a step halfway up the staircase. there were many of these trick stairs at hogwarts; it was second nature to most of the older students to jump this particular step, but Neville_Longbottom’s memory was notoriously poor. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley seized him under the armpits and pulled him out, while a suit of armour at the top of the stairs creaked and clanked, laughing wheezily. ‘shut it, you,’ said Ronald_Weasley banging down its visor as they passed. they made their way up to the entrance to gryffindor tower, which was concealed behind a large portrait of a Fat_Lady in a pink silk dress. ‘password?’ she said, as they approached. ‘balderdash,’ said George_Weasley, ‘a prefect downstairs told me.’ the portrait swung forwards to reveal a hole in the wall, through which they all climbed. a crackling fire was warming the circular common room, which was full of squashy armchairs and tables. Hermione_Granger cast the merrily dancing flames a dark look, and Harry_Potter distinctly heard her mutter ‘slave labour’, before bidding them goodnight, and disappearing through the doorway to the girls’ dormitories. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom climbed up the last, spiral staircase until they reached their own dormitory, which was situated at the top of the tower. five four-poster beds with deep crimson hangings stood against the walls, each with its owner’s trunk at the foot. Dean_Thomas and Seamus_Finnigan were already getting into bed; Seamus_Finnigan had pinned his ireland rosette to his headboard, and Dean_Thomas had tacked up a poster of Viktor_Krum over his bedside table. his old poster of west ham football team was pinned right next to it. ‘mental,’ Ronald_Weasley sighed, shaking his head at the completely stationary soccer players. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Neville_Longbottom got into their pyjamas and into bed. someone – a house-elf, no doubt – had placed warming pans between the sheets. it was extremely comfortable, lying there in bed and listening to the storm raging outside. ‘i might go in for it, you know,’ Ronald_Weasley said sleepily through the darkness, ‘if Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley find out how to … the tournament … you never know, do you?’ ‘s’pose not …’ Harry_Potter rolled over in bed, a series of dazzling new pictures forming in his mind’s eye … he had hoodwinked the impartial judge into believing he was seventeen … he had become hogwarts champion … he was standing in the grounds, his arms raised in triumph in front of the whole school, all of whom were applauding and screaming … he had just won the triwizard tournament … cho’s face stood out particularly clearly in the blurred crowd, her face glowing with admiration … Harry_Potter grinned into his pillow, exceptionally glad that Ronald_Weasley couldn’t see what he could. 