— chapter twenty-nine — the dream ‘it comes down to this,’ said Hermione_Granger, rubbing her forehead. ‘either mr crouch attacked Viktor_Krum, or somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor_Krum wasn’t looking.’ ‘it must’ve been crouch,’ saidRonald_Weasleyat once. ‘that’s why he was gone when Harry_Potter and Albus_Dumbledore got there. he’d done a runner.’ ‘i don’t think so,’ said Harry_Potter, shaking his head. ‘he seemed really weak – i don’t reckon he was up to disapparating or anything.’ ‘you can’t disapparate in the hogwarts grounds, haven’t i told you enough times?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘ok … how’s this for a theory,’ saidRonald_Weasleyexcitedly, ‘krum attacked crouch – no, wait for it – and then stunned himself!’ ‘and mr crouch evaporated, did he?’ said Hermione_Granger coldly. ‘oh, yeah …’ it was daybreak. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger had crept out of their dormitories very early, and hurried up to the owlery together to send a note to Sirius_Black. now they were Stanley_Shunpikeding looking out at the misty grounds. all three of them were puffy-eyed and pale, because they had been talking late into the night about mr crouch. ‘just go through it again, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘what did mr crouch actually say?’ ‘i’ve told you, he wasn’t making much sense,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he said he wanted to warn Albus_Dumbledore about something. he definitely mentioned Bertha_Jorkins jorkins, and he seemed to think she was dead. he kept saying stuff was his fault … he mentioned his son.’ ‘well, that was his fault,’ said Hermione_Granger testily. ‘he was out of his mind,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘half the time he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, and he kept talking to Percy_Weasley about work and giving him instructions.’ ‘and … remind me what he said about Tom_Riddle?’ saidRonald_Weasley   tentatively. ‘i’ve told you,’ Harry_Potter repeated dully. ‘he said he’s getting stronger.’ there was a pause. thenRonald_Weasleysaid in a falsely confident voice, ‘but he was out of his mind, like you said, so half of it was probably just raving …’ ‘he was sanest when he was trying to talk about voldemort,’ said Harry_Potter, ignoring ron’s wince. ‘he was having real trouble stringing two words together, but that was when he seemed to know where he was, and know what he wanted to do. he just kept saying he had to see Albus_Dumbledore.’ Harry_Potter turned away from the window and stared up into the rafters. half the many perches were empty; every now and then, another owl would swoop in through one of the windows, returning from its night’s hunting with a mouse in its beak. ‘if snape hadn’t held me up,’ Harry_Potter said bitterly, ‘we might’ve got there in time. “the headmaster is busy, potter … what’s this rubbish, potter?” why couldn’t he have just got out of the way?’ ‘maybe he didn’t want you to get there!’ saidRonald_Weasleyquickly. ‘maybe – hang on – how fast d’you reckon he could’ve got down to the forest? d’you reckon he could’ve beaten you and Albus_Dumbledore there?’ ‘not unless he can turn himself into a bat or something,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘wouldn’t put it past him,’Ronald_Weasleymuttered. ‘we need to see professor moody,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘we need to find out whether he found mr crouch.’ ‘if he had the marauder’s map on him, it would’ve been easy,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘unless crouch was already outside the grounds,’ said ron, ‘because it only shows up to the boundaries, doesn’t –’ ‘shh!’ said Hermione_Granger suddenly. somebody was climbing the steps up to the owlery. Harry_Potter could hear two voices arguing, coming closer and closer. ‘– that’s blackmail, that is, we could get into a lot of trouble for that –’ ‘– we’ve tried being polite, it’s time to play dirty, like him. he wouldn’t like the ministry of Magic_goblin knowing what he did –’ ‘i’m telling you, if you put that in writing, it’s blackmail!’ ‘yeah, and you won’t be complaining if we get a nice fat payoff, will you?’ the owlery door banged open. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley came over the threshold, then froze at the sight of Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger. ‘what’re you doing here?’Ronald_Weasleyand Fred_Weasley said at the same time. ‘sending a letter,’ said Harry_Potter and George_Weasley in unison. ‘what, at this time?’ said Hermione_Granger and Fred_Weasley. Fred_Weasley grinned. ‘fine – we won’t ask you what you’re doing, if you don’t ask us,’ he said. he was holding a sealed envelope in his hands. Harry_Potter glanced at it, but Fred_Weasley, whether accidenTall_gobliny or on purpose, shifted his hand so that the name on it was covered. ‘well, don’t let us hold you up,’ he said, making a mock bow, and pointing at the door.Ronald_Weasleydidn’t move. ‘who’re you blackmailing?’ he said. the grin vanished from Fred_Weasley’s face. Harry_Potter saw George_Weasley half glance at Fred_Weasley, before smiling at ron. ‘don’t be stupid, i was only joking,’ he said easily. ‘didn’t sound like that,’ said ron. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley looked at each other. then Fred_Weasley said abruptly, ‘i’ve told you before, ron, keep your nose out if you like it the shape it is. can’t see why you would, but –’ ‘it’s my business if you’re blackmailing someone,’ said ron. ‘George_Weasley’s right, you could end up in serious trouble for that.’ ‘told you, i was joking,’ said George_Weasley. he walked over to Fred_Weasley, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl. ‘you’re starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, you are, ron. carry on like this and you’ll be made a prefect.’ ‘no, i won’t!’ saidRonald_Weasleyhotly. George_Weasley carried the barn owl over to the window and it took off. he turned round and grinned at ron. ‘well, stop telling people what to do then. see you later.’ he and Fred_Weasley left the owlery. Harry_Potter,Ronald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger stared at each other. ‘you don’t think they know something about all this, do you?’ Hermione_Granger whispered. ‘about crouch and everything?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘if it was something that serious, they’d tell someone. they’d tell Albus_Dumbledore.’ ron, however, was looking uncomfortable. ‘what’s the matter?’ Hermione_Granger asked him. ‘well …’ saidRonald_Weasleyslowly, ‘i dunno if they would. they’re … they’re obsessed with making money lately, i noticed it when i was hanging around with them – when – you know –’ ‘we weren’t talking,’ Harry_Potter finished the sentence for him. ‘yeah, but blackmail …’ ‘it’s this joke-shop idea they’ve got,’ said ron. ‘i thought they were only saying it to annoy mum, but they really mean it, they want to start one. they’ve only got a year left at hogwarts, they keep going on about how it’s time to think about their future, and dad can’t help them, and they need gold to get started.’ Hermione_Granger was looking uncomfortable now. ‘yes, but … they wouldn’t do anything against the law to get gold. would they?’ ‘wouldn’t they?’ said ron, looking sceptical. ‘i dunno … they don’t exactly mind breaking rules, do they?’ ‘yes, but this is the law,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking scared. ‘this isn’t some silly school rule … they’ll get a lot more than detention for blackmail!Ronald_Weasley… maybe you’d better tell Percy_Weasley …’ ‘are you mad?’ said ron. ‘tell Percy_Weasley? he’d probably do a crouch and turn them in.’ he stared at the window through which Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley’s owl had departed, then said, ‘come on, let’s get some breakfast.’ ‘d’you think it’s too early to go and see professor moody?’ Hermione_Granger said, as they went down the spiral staircase. ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’d probably blast us through the door if we wake him at the crack of dawn, he’ll think we’re trying to attack him while he’s asleep. let’s give it ’til break.’ history of Magic_goblin had rarely gone so slowly. Harry_Potter kept checking ron’s watch, having finally discarded his own, but ron’s was moving so slowly he could have sworn it had stopped working too. all three of them were so tired they could happily have put their heads down on the desks and slept; even Hermione_Granger wasn’t taking her usual notes, but was sitting with her head on her hand, gazing at professor binns with her eyes out of focus. when the bell finally rang, they hurried out into the corridors towards the dark arts classroom, and found professor moody leaving it. he looked as tired as they felt. the eyelid of his normal eye was drooping, giving his face an even more lop-sided appearance than usual. ‘professor moody?’ Harry_Potter called, as they made their way towards him through the crowd. ‘hello, potter,’ growled moody. his Magic_goblinal eye followed a couple of passing first-years, who sped up, looking nervous; it rolled into the back of moody’s head and watched them around the corner before he spoke again. ‘come in here.’ he stood back to let them into his empty classroom, limped in after them and closed the door. ‘did you find him?’ Harry_Potter asked, without preamble. ‘mr crouch?’ ‘no,’ said moody. he moved over to his desk, sat down, stretched out his wooden leg with a slight groan and pulled out his hip-flask. ‘did you use the map?’ Harry_Potter said. ‘of course,’ said moody, taking a swig from his flask. ‘took a leaf out of your book, potter. summoned it from my office into the forest. he wasn’t anywhere on there.’ ‘so he did disapparate?’ said ron. ‘you can’t disapparate in the grounds, ron!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘there are other ways he could have disappeared, aren’t there, professor?’ moody’s Magic_goblinal eye quivered as it rested on Hermione_Granger. ‘you’re another one who might think about a career as an auror,’ he told her. ‘mind works the right way, granger.’ Hermione_Granger flushed pink with pleasure. ‘well, he wasn’t invisible,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘the map shows invisible people. he must’ve left the grounds, then.’ ‘but under his own steam?’ said Hermione_Granger eagerly. ‘or because someone made him?’ ‘yeah, someone could’ve – could’ve pulled him onto a broom and flown off with him, couldn’t they?’ saidRonald_Weasleyquickly, looking Hope_Howellfully at moody, as if he, too, wanted to be told he had the makings of an auror. ‘we can’t rule out kidnap,’ growled moody. ‘so,’ said ron, ‘d’you reckon he’s somewhere in hogsmeade?’ ‘could be anywhere,’ said moody, shaking his head. ‘only thing we know for sure is that he’s not here.’ he yawned widely, so that his scars stretched, and his lopsided mouth revealed a number of missing teeth. then he said, ‘now, Albus_Dumbledore’s told me you three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there’s nothing you can do for crouch. the ministry’ll be looking for him now, Albus_Dumbledore’s notified them. potter, you just keep your mind on the third task.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh, yeah …’ he hadn’t given the maze a single thought since he’d left it with krum the previous night. ‘should be right up your street, this one,’ said moody, looking up at Harry_Potter and scratching his scarred and stubbly chin. ‘from what Albus_Dumbledore’s said, you’ve managed to get through stuff like this plenty of times. broke your way through a series of obstacles guarding the philosopher’s stone in your first year, didn’t you?’ ‘we helped,’Ronald_Weasleysaid quickly. ‘me and Hermione_Granger helped.’ moody grinned. ‘well, help him practise for this one, and i’ll be very surprised if he doesn’t win,’ he said. ‘in the meantime … conStanley_Shunpiket vigilance, potter. conStanley_Shunpiket vigilance.’ he took another long draught from his hip-flask, and his Magic_goblinal eye swivelled onto the window. the topmost sail of the durmstrang ship was visible through it. ‘you two’ – his normal eye was onRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger – ‘you stick close to potter, all right? i’m keeping an eye on things, but all the same … you can never have too many eyes out.’ * Sirius_Black sent their owl back the very next morning. it fluttered down beside Harry_Potter at the same moment that a tawny owl landed in front of Hermione_Granger, clutching a copy of the daily prophet in its beak. she took the newspaper, scanned the first few pages, said ‘ha! she hasn’t got wind of crouch!’, then joinedRonald_Weasleyand Harry_Potter in reading what Sirius_Black had to say on the mysterious events of the night before last. Harry_Potter – what do you think you are playing at, walking off into the forest with Viktor_Krum krum? i want you to swear, by return owl, that you are not going to go walking with anyone else at night. there is somebody highly dangerous at hogwarts. it is clear to me that they wanted to stop crouch seeing Albus_Dumbledore and you were probably feet away from them in the dark. you could have been killed. your name didn’t get into the goblet of fire by accident. if someone’s trying to attack you, they’re on their last chance. stay close toRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger, do not leave gryffindor tower after hours, and arm yourself for the third task. practise stunning and disarming. a few hexes wouldn’t go amiss either. there’s nothing you can do about crouch. keep your head down and look after yourself. i’m waiting for your letter giving me your word you won’t stray out of bounds again. Sirius_Black ‘who’s he, to lecture me about being out of bounds?’ said Harry_Potter in mild   indignation, as he folded up Sirius_Black’ letter and put it inside his robes. ‘after all the stuff he did at school!’ ‘he’s worried about you!’ said Hermione_Granger sharply. ‘just like moody and Rubeus_Hagrid! so listen to them!’ ‘no one’s tried to attack me all year,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no one’s done anything to me at all –’ ‘except put your name in the goblet of fire,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘and they must’ve done that for a reason, Harry_Potter. Sirius_Black is right. maybe they’ve been biding their time. maybe this is the task they’re going to get you.’ ‘look,’ said Harry_Potter impatiently, ‘let’s say Sirius_Black is right, and someone stunned krum to kidnap crouch. well, they would’ve been in the trees near us, wouldn’t they? but they waited ’til i was out of the way until they acted, didn’t they? so it doesn’t look like i’m their target, does it?’ ‘they couldn’t have made it look like an accident if they’d murdered you in the forest!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘but if you die during a task –’ ‘they didn’t care about attacking krum, did they?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘why didn’t they just polish me off at the same time? they could’ve made it look like krum and i had a duel or something.’ ‘Harry_Potter, i don’t underStanley_Shunpiked it either,’ said Hermione_Granger desperately. ‘i just know there are a lot of odd things going on, and i don’t like it … moody’s right – Sirius_Black is right – you’ve got to get in training for the third task, straight away. and you make sure you write back to Sirius_Black and promise him you’re not going to go sneaking off alone again.’ * the hogwarts grounds never looked more inviting than when Harry_Potter had to stay indoors. for the next few days he spent all of his free time either in the library with Hermione_Granger and ron, looking up hexes, or else in empty classrooms, which they sneaked into to practise. Harry_Potter was concentrating on the stunning spell, which he had never used before. the trouble was that practising it involved certain sacrifices onRonald_Weasleyand Hermione_Granger’s part. ‘can’t we kidnap Mrs_Norris?’Ronald_Weasleysuggested during monday lunchtime, as he lay flat on his back in the middle of their charms classroom, having just been stunned and re-awoken by Harry_Potter for the fifth time in a row. ‘let’s stun her for a bit. or you could use Dobby, Harry_Potter, i bet he’d do anything to help you. i’m not complaining or anything’ – he got gingerly to his feet, rubbing his backside – ‘but i’m aching all over …’ ‘well, you keep missing the cushions, don’t you!’ said Hermione_Granger impatiently, rearranging the pile of cushions they had used for the banishing spell, which flitwick had left in a cabinet. ‘just try and fall backwards!’ ‘once you’re stunned, you can’t aim too well, Hermione_Granger!’ saidRonald_Weasleyangrily. ‘why don’t you take a turn?’ ‘well, i think Harry_Potter’s got it now, anyway,’ said Hermione_Granger hastily. ‘and we don’t have to worry about disarming, because he’s been able to do that for ages … i think we ought to start on some of these hexes this evening.’ she looked down the list they had made in the library. ‘i like the look of this one,’ she said, ‘this impediment jinx. should slow down anything that’s trying to attack you, Harry_Potter. we’ll start with that one.’ the bell rang. they hastily shoved the cushions back into flitwick’s cupboard, and slipped out of the classroom. ‘see you at dinner!’ said Hermione_Granger, and she set off for arithmancy, while Harry_Potter andRonald_Weasleyheaded towards north tower, and divination. broad strips of dazzling gold sunlight fell across the corridor from the high windows. the sky outside was so brightly blue it looked as though it had been enamelled. ‘it’s going to be boiling in trelawney’s room, she never puts out that fire,’ said ron, as they started up the staircase towards the silver ladder and the trapdoor. he was quite right. the dimly lit room was swelteringly hot. the fumes from the perfumed fire were heavier than ever. Harry_Potter’s head swam as he made his way over to one of the curtained windows. while professor trelawney was looking the other way, disentangling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an inch or so and settled back in his chintz armchair, so that a soft breeze played across his face. it was extremely comfortable. ‘my dears,’ said professor trelawney, sitting down in her winged armchair in front of the class and peering around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, ‘we have almost finished our work on planetary divination. today, however, will be an excellent opportunity to examine the effects of mars, for he is placed most interestingly at the present time. if you will all look this way, i will dim the lights …’ she waved her wand and the lamps went out. the fire was the only source of light now. professor trelawney bent down, and lifted, from under her chair, a miniature model of the solar system, contained within a glass dome. it was a beautiful thing; each of the moons glimmered in place around the nine planets and the fiery sun, all of them hanging in thin air beneath the glass. Harry_Potter watched lazily as professor trelawney began to point out the fascinating angle mars was making with neptune. the heavily perfumed fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the window played across his face. he could hear an insect humming gently somewhere behind the curtain. his eyelids began to droop … he was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring through the clear blue sky towards an old, ivy-covered house set high on a hillside. lower and lower they flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry_Potter’s face, until they reached a dark and broken window in the upper storey of the house, and entered. now they were flying along a Gloomy_nuns passageway, to a room at the very end … through the door they went, into a dark room whose windows were boarded up … Harry_Potter had left the owl’s back … he was watching, now, as it fluttered across the room, into a chair with its back to him … there were two dark shapes on the floor beside the chair … both of them were stirring … one was a huge snake … the other was a man … a short, balding man, a man with watery eyes and a pointed nose … he was wheezing and sobbing on the hearth-rug … ‘you are in luck, Peter_Pettigrew,’ said a cold, high-pitched voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl had landed. ‘you are very fortunate indeed. your blunder has not ruined everything. he is dead.’ ‘my lord!’ gasped the man on the floor. ‘my lord, i am … i am so pleased … and so sorry …’ ‘Nagini,’ said the cold voice, ‘you are out of luck. i will not be feeding Peter_Pettigrew to you, after all … but never mind, never mind … there is still Harry_Potter potter …’ the snake hissed. Harry_Potter could see its tongue fluttering. ‘now, Peter_Pettigrew,’ said the cold voice, ‘perhaps one more little reminder why i will not tolerate another blunder from you …’ ‘my lord … no … i beg you …’ the tip of a wand emerged from the depths of the chair. it was pointing at Peter_Pettigrew. ‘crucio,’ said the cold voice. Peter_Pettigrew screamed, screamed as though every nerve in his body was on fire, the screaming filled Harry_Potter’s ears as the scar on his forehead seared with pain; he was yelling, too … voldemort would hear him, would know he was there … ‘Harry_Potter! Harry_Potter!’ Harry_Potter opened his eyes. he was lying on the floor of professor trelawney’s room with his hands over his face. his scar was still burning so badly that his eyes were watering. the pain had been real. the whole class was Stanley_Shunpikeding around him, andRonald_Weasleywas kneeling next to him, looking terrified. ‘you all right?’ he said. ‘of course he isn’t!’ said professor trelawney, looking thoroughly excited. her great eyes loomed over Harry_Potter, gazing at him. ‘what was it, potter? a premonition? an apparition? what did you see?’ ‘nothing,’ Harry_Potter lied. he sat up. he could feel himself shaking. he couldn’t stop himself looking around, into the shadows behind him; voldemort’s voice had sounded so close … ‘you were clutching your scar!’ said professor trelawney. ‘you were rolling on the floor, clutching your scar! come now, potter, i have experience in these matters!’ Harry_Potter looked up at her. ‘i need to go to the hospital wing, i think,’ he said. ‘bad headache.’ ‘my dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by  the extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!’ said professor trelawney. ‘if you leave now, you may lose the opportunity to see further than you have ever –’ ‘i don’t want to see anything except a headache cure,’ said Harry_Potter. he stood up. the class backed away. they all looked unnerved. ‘see you later,’ Harry_Potter muttered to ron, and he picked up his bag and headed for the trapdoor, ignoring professor trelawney, who was wearing an expression of great frustration, as though she had just been denied a real treat. when Harry_Potter reached the bottom of her stepladder, however, he did not set off for the hospital wing. he had no intention whatsoever of going there. Sirius_Black had told him what to do if his scar hurt him again, and Harry_Potter was going to follow his advice: he was going straight to Albus_Dumbledore’s office. he marched down the corridors, thinking about what he had seen in the dream … it had been as vivid as the one which had awoken him in privet drive … he ran over the details in his mind, trying to make sure he could remember them … he had heard voldemort accusing Peter_Pettigrew of making a blunder … but the owl had brought good news, the blunder had been repaired, somebody was dead … so Peter_Pettigrew was not going to be fed to the snake … he, Harry_Potter, was going to be fed to it instead … Harry_Potter had walked right past the stone garGoyle guarding the entrance to Albus_Dumbledore’s office without noticing. he blinked, looked around, realised what he had done and retraced his steps, stopping in front of it. then he remembered that he didn’t know the password. ‘sherbet lemon?’ he tried tentatively. the garGoyle did not move. ‘ok,’ said Harry_Potter, staring at it. ‘pear drop. er – liquorice wand. fizzing whizzbee. drooble’s best blowing gum. bertie bott’s every flavour beans … oh no, he doesn’t like them, does he? … oh, just open, can’t you?’ he said angrily. ‘i really need to see him, it’s urgent!’ the garGoyle remained immovable. Harry_Potter kicked it, achieving nothing but an excruciating pain in his big toe. ‘chocolate frog!’ he yelled angrily, Stanley_Shunpikeding on one leg. ‘sugar quill! cockroach cluster!’ the garGoyle sprang to life, and jumped aside. Harry_Potter blinked. ‘cockroach cluster?’ he said, amazed. ‘i was only joking …’ he hurried through the gap in the walls, and stepped onto the foot of a spiral stone staircase, which moved slowly upwards as the doors closed behind him, taking him up to a polished oak door with a brass door-knocker. he could hear voices from inside the office. he stepped off the moving staircase and hesitated, listening. ‘Albus_Dumbledore, i’m afraid i don’t see the connection, don’t see it at all!’ it was the voice of the minister for Magic_goblin, Cornelius_Fudge fudge. ‘Ludovic_Bagman says Bertha_Jorkins’s perfectly capable of getting herself lost. i agree we would have expected to have found her by now, but all the same, we’ve no evidence of foul play, Albus_Dumbledore, none at all. as for her disappearance being linked with Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch’s!’ ‘and what do you think’s happened to Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch, minister?’ said moody’s growling voice. ‘i see two possibilities, Alastor_Moody,’ said fudge. ‘either crouch has finally cracked – more than likely, i’m sure you’ll agree, given his personal history – lost his mind, and gone wandering off somewhere –’ ‘he wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, Cornelius_Fudge,’ said Albus_Dumbledore calmly. ‘or else – well …’ fudge sounded embarrassed. ‘well, i’ll reserve judgement until after i’ve seen the place where he was found, but you say it was just past the beauxbatons carriage? Albus_Dumbledore, you know what that woman is?’ ‘i consider her to be a very able headmistress – and an excellent dancer,’ said Albus_Dumbledore quietly. ‘Albus_Dumbledore, come!’ said fudge angrily. ‘don’t you think you might be prejudiced in her favour because of Rubeus_Hagrid? they don’t all turn out harmless – if, indeed, you can call Rubeus_Hagrid harmless, with that monster fixation he’s got –’ ‘i no more suspect madame maxime than Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, just as calmly. ‘i think it possible that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius_Fudge.’ ‘can we wrap up this discussion?’ growled moody. ‘yes, yes, let’s go down into the grounds, then,’ said Cornelius_Fudge impatiently. ‘no, it’s not that,’ said moody, ‘it’s just that potter wants a word with you, Albus_Dumbledore. he’s just outside the door.’ 