— chapter thirty-one — the third task ‘Albus_Dumbledore reckons Tom_Riddle’s getting stronger again as well?’ Ronald_Weasley whispered. everything Harry_Potter had seen in the pensieve, nearly everything Albus_Dumbledore had told and shown him afterwards, he had now shared with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger – and, of course, with Sirius_Black, to whom Harry_Potter had sent an owl the moment he had left Albus_Dumbledore’s office. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger sat up late in the common room once again that night, talking it all over until Harry_Potter’s mind was reeling, until he understood what Albus_Dumbledore had meant about a head becoming so full of thoughts that it would have been a relief to siphon them off. Ronald_Weasley stared into the common-room fire. Harry_Potter thought he saw Ronald_Weasley shiver slightly, even though the evening was warm. ‘and he trusts snape?’ Ronald_Weasley said. ‘he really trusts snape, even though he knows he was a death eater?’ ‘yes,’ said Harry_Potter. Hermione_Granger had not spoken for ten minutes. she was sitting with her forehead in her hands, staring at her knees. Harry_Potter thought she, too, looked as though she could have done with a pensieve. ‘Rita_Skeeter,’ she muttered finally. ‘how can you be worrying about her now?’ said Ronald_Weasley indisbelief. ‘i’m not worrying about her,’ Hermione_Granger said to her knees. ‘i’m just thinking … remember what she said to me in the three broomsticks? “i know things about Ludovic_Bagman bagman that would make your hair curl.” this is what she meant, isn’t it? she reported his trial, she knew he’d passed information to the death eaters. and Winky, too, remember … “mr bagman is a bad wizard.” mr crouch would have been furious he got off, he would have talked about it at home.’ ‘yeah, but bagman didn’t pass information on purpose, did he?’ Hermione_Granger shrugged.    ‘and fudge reckons madame maxime attacked crouch?’ Ronald_Weasley said, turning back to Harry_Potter. ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but he’s only saying that because crouch disappeared near the beauxbatons carriage.’ ‘we never thought of her, did we?’ said Ronald_Weasley slowly. ‘mind you, she’s definitely got giant blood, and she doesn’t want to admit it –’ ‘of course she doesn’t,’ said Hermione_Granger sharply, looking up. ‘look what happened to Rubeus_Hagrid when Rita_Skeeter found out about his mother. look at fudge, jumping to conclusions about her, just because she’s part giant. who needs that sort of prejudice? i’d probably say i had big bones if i knew that’s what i’d get for telling the truth.’ Hermione_Granger looked at her watch. ‘we haven’t done any practising!’ she said, looking shocked. ‘we were going to do the impediment jinx! we’ll have to really get down to it tomorrow! come on, Harry_Potter, you need to get some sleep.’ Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley went slowly upstairs to their dormitory. as Harry_Potter pulled on his pyjamas, he looked over at Neville_Longbottom’s bed. true to his word to Albus_Dumbledore, he had not told Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger about Neville_Longbottom’s parents. as Harry_Potter took off his glasses and climbed into his four-poster, he imagined how it must feel to have parents still living, but unable to recognise you. he often got sympathy from strangers for being an orphan, but as he listened to Neville_Longbottom’s snores, he thought that Neville_Longbottom deserved it more than he did. lying in the darkness, Harry_Potter felt a rush of anger and hate towards the people who had tortured mr and mrs longbottom … he remembered the jeers of the crowd as crouch’s son and his companions had been dragged from the court by the dementors … he understood how they had felt … then he remembered the milk-white face of the screaming boy, and realised with a jolt that he had died a year later … it was voldemort, Harry_Potter thought, staring up at the canopy of his bed in the darkness, it all came back to voldemort … he was the one who had torn these families apart, who had ruined all these lives … * Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger were supposed to be revising for their exams, which would finish on the day of the third task, but they were putting most of their efforts into helping Harry_Potter prepare. ‘don’t worry about it,’ Hermione_Granger said shortly, when Harry_Potter pointed this out to them, and said he didn’t mind practising on his own for a while. ‘at least we’ll get top marks in defence against the dark arts, we’d never have found out about all these hexes in class.’ ‘good training for when we’re all aurors,’ said Ronald_Weasley excitedly, attempting the impediment jinx on a wasp that had buzzed into the room, and making it stop dead in mid-air. the mood in the castle as they entered june became excited and tense again. everyone was looking forward to the third task, which would take place a week before the end of term. Harry_Potter was practising hexes in every available moment. he felt more confident about this task than either of the others. difficult and dangerous though it would undoubtedly be, moody was right: Harry_Potter had managed to find his way past monstrous creatures and enchanted barriers before now, and this time he had some notice, some chance to prepare himself for what lay ahead. tired of walking in on them all over the school, professor Minerva_McGonagall had given Harry_Potter permission to use the empty transfiguration classroom at lunchtimes. he had soon mastered the impediment jinx, a spell to slow down and obstruct attackers, the reductor curse, which would enable him to blast solid objects out of his way, and the four-point spell, a useful discovery of Hermione_Granger’s which would make his wand point due north, therefore enabling him to check whether he was going in the right direction within the maze. he was still having trouble with the shield charm, though. this was supposed to cast a temporary, invisible wall around himself that deflected minor curses; Hermione_Granger managed to shatter it with a well-plaCedric_Diggory jelly-legs jinx. Harry_Potter wobbled around the room for ten minutes afterwards before she had looked up the counter-jinx. ‘you’re still doing really well, though,’ Hermione_Granger said encouragingly, looking down her list, and crossing off those spells they had already learnt. ‘some of these are bound to come in handy.’ ‘come and look at this,’ said Ronald_Weasley who was standing by the window. he was staring down into the grounds. ‘what’s malfoy doing?’ Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger went to see. malfoy, crabbe and Goyle were standing in the shadow of a tree below. crabbe and Goyle seemed to be keeping a look out; both were smirking. malfoy was holding his hand up to his mouth, and speaking into it. ‘he looks like he’s using a walkie-talkie,’ said Harry_Potter curiously. ‘he can’t be,’ said Hermione_Granger, ‘i’ve told you, those sort of things don’t work around hogwarts. come on, Harry_Potter,’ sheadded briskly, turning away from the window and moving back into the middle of the room, ‘let’s try that shield charm again.’ * Sirius_Black was sending daily owls now. like Hermione_Granger, he seemed to want to concentrate on getting Harry_Potter through the last task, before they concerned themselves with anything else. he reminded Harry_Potter in every letter that whatever might be going on outside the walls of hogwarts was not Harry_Potter’s responsibility, nor was it within his power to influence it. if voldemort is really getting stronger again [he wrote], my priority is to ensure your safety. he cannot Hope_Howell to lay hands on you while you are under Albus_Dumbledore’s protection, but all the same, take no risks: concentrate on getting through that maze safely, and then we can turn our attention to other matters. Harry_Potter’s nerves mounted as june the twenty-fourth drew closer, but they were not as bad as those he had had before the first and second tasks. for one thing, he was confident that, this time, he had done everything in his power to prepare for the task. for another, this was the final hurdle, and however well or badly he did, the tournament would at last be over, which would be an enormous relief. * breakfast was a very noisy affair at the gryffindor table on the morning of the third task. the post owls appeared, bringing Harry_Potter a good-luck card from Sirius_Black. it was only a piece of parchment, folded over and bearing a muddy paw print on its front, but Harry_Potter appreciated it all the same. a screech owl arrived for Hermione_Granger, carrying her morning copy of the daily prophet as usual. she unfolded the paper, glanCedric_Diggory at the front page, and spat out a mouthful of pumpkin juice all over it. ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley together, staring at her. ‘nothing,’ said Hermione_Granger quickly, trying to shove the paper out of sight, but Ronald_Weasley grabbed it. he stared at the headline, and said, ‘no way. not today. that old cow.’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘Rita_Skeeter again?’ ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley and just like Hermione_Granger, he attempted to push the paper out of sight. ‘it’s about me, isn’t it?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘no,’ said Ronald_Weasley in an entirely unconvincing tone. but before Harry_Potter could demand to see the paper, Draco_Malfoy shouted   across the great hall from the slytherin table. ‘hey, potter! potter! how’s your head? you feeling all right? sure you’re not going to go berserk on us?’ malfoy was holding a copy of the daily prophet, too. slytherins up and down the table were sniggering, twisting in their seats to see Harry_Potter’s reaction. ‘let me see it,’ Harry_Potter said to Ronald_Weasley ‘give it here.’ very reluctantly, Ronald_Weasley handed over the newspaper. Harry_Potter turned it over, and found himself staring at his own picture, beneath a banner headline: Harry_Potter ‘disturbed and dangerous’ the boy who defeated he who must not be named is unstable and possibly dangerous, writes Rita_Skeeter, special correspondent. alarming evidence has recently come to light about Harry_Potter’s strange behaviour, which casts doubts upon his suitability to compete in a demanding competition like the triwizard tournament, or even to attend hogwarts school. potter, the daily prophet can exclusively reveal, regularly collapses at school, and is often heard to complain of pain in the scar on his forehead (relic of the curse with which Tom_Riddle attempted to kill him). on monday last, mid-way through a divination lesson, your daily prophet reporter witnessed potter storming from the class, claiming that his scar was hurting too badly to continue studying. it is possible, say top experts at st mungo’s hospital for magical maladies and injuries, that potter’s brain was affected by the attack inflicted upon him by Tom_Riddle, and that his insistence that the scar is still hurting is an expression of his deep-seated confusion. ‘he might even be pretending,’ said one specialist, ‘this could be a plea for attention.’ the daily prophet, however, has unearthed worrying facts about Harry_Potter that Albus_Dumbledore, headmaster of hogwarts, has carefully concealed from the wizarding public. ‘potter can speak parseltongue,’ reveals Draco_Malfoy, a hogwarts fourth-year. ‘there were a lot of attacks on students a couple of years ago, and most people thought potter was behind them after they saw him lose his temper at a duelling club and set a snake on another boy. it was all hushed up, though. but he’s made friends with werewolves and giants too. we think he’d do anything for a bit of power.’ parseltongue, the ability to converse with snakes, has long been  considered a dark art. indeed, the most famous parselmouth of our times is none other than Tom_Riddle himself. a member of the dark force defence league, who wished to remain unnamed, stated that he would regard any wizard who could speak parseltongue ‘as worthy of investigation. personally, i would be highly suspicious of anybody who could converse with snakes, as serpents are often used in the worst kinds of dark magic, and are historically associated with evil-doers.’ similarly, ‘anyone who seeks out the company of such vicious creatures as werewolves and giants would appear to have a fondness for violence’. Albus_Dumbledore should surely consider whether a boy such as this should be allowed to compete in the triwizard tournament. some fear that potter might resort to the dark arts in his desperation to win the tournament, the third task of which takes place this evening. ‘gone off me a bit, hasn’t she?’ said Harry_Potter lightly, folding up the paper. over on the slytherin table, malfoy, crabbe and Goyle were laughing at him, tapping their heads with their fingers, pulling grotesquely mad faces and waggling their tongues like snakes. ‘how did she know your scar hurt in divination?’ Ronald_Weasley said. ‘there’s no way she was there, there’s no way she could’ve heard –’ ‘the window was open,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i opened it to breathe.’ ‘you were at the top of north tower!’ Hermione_Granger said. ‘your voice couldn’t have carried all the way down to the grounds!’ ‘well, you’re the one who’s supposed to be researching magical methods of bugging!’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you tell me how she did it!’ ‘i’ve been trying!’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘but i … but …’ an odd, dreamy expression suddenly came over Hermione_Granger’s face. she slowly raised a hand, and ran her fingers through her hair. ‘are you all right?’ said Ronald_Weasley frowning at her. ‘yes,’ said Hermione_Granger breathlessly. she ran her fingers through her hair again, and then held her hand up to her mouth, as though speaking into an invisible walkie-talkie. Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley stared at each other. ‘i’ve had an idea,’ Hermione_Granger said, gazing into space. ‘i think i know … because then no one would be able to see … even moody … and she’d have been able to get onto the window-ledge … but she’s not allowed … she’s definitely not allowed … i think we’ve got her! just give me two seconds in the library – just to make sure!’ with that, Hermione_Granger seized her schoolbag, and dashed out of the great  hall. ‘oi!’ Ronald_Weasley called after her. ‘we’ve got our history of magic exam in ten minutes! blimey,’ he said, turning back to Harry_Potter, ‘she must really hate that skeeter woman to risk missing the start of an exam. what’re you going to do in binns’s class – read again?’ exempt from the end-of-term tests as a triwizard champion, Harry_Potter had been sitting at the back of every exam class so far, looking up fresh hexes for the third task. ‘s’pose so,’ Harry_Potter said to ron; but just then, professor Minerva_McGonagall came walking along the gryffindor table towards him. ‘potter, the champions are congregating in the chamber off the hall after breakfast,’ she said. ‘but the task’s not ’til tonight!’ said Harry_Potter, accidentally spilling scrambled eggs down his front, afraid he had mistaken the time. ‘i’m aware of that, potter,’ she said. ‘the champions’ families are invited to watch the final task, you know. this is simply a chance for you to greet them.’ she moved away. Harry_Potter gaped after her. ‘she doesn’t expect Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley to turn up, does she?’ he asked Ronald_Weasley blankly. ‘dunno,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Harry_Potter, i’d better hurry, i’m going to be late for binns. see you later.’ Harry_Potter finished his breakfast in the emptying great hall. he saw Fleur_Delacour get up from the ravenclaw table and join Cedric_Diggory as he crossed to the side chamber and entered. krum slouched off to join them shortly afterwards. Harry_Potter stayed where he was. he really didn’t want to go into the chamber. he had no family – no family who would turn up to see him risk his life, anyway. but just as he was getting up, thinking that he might as well go up to the library and do a spot more hex revision, the door of the side chamber opened, and Cedric_Diggory stuck his head out. ‘Harry_Potter, come on, they’re waiting for you!’ utterly perplexed, Harry_Potter got up. Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley couldn’t possibly be here, could they? he walked across the hall and opened the door into the chamber. Cedric_Diggory and his parents were just inside the door. Viktor_Krum was over in a corner, conversing with his dark-haired mother and father in rapid bulgarian. he had inherited his father’s hooked nose. on the other side of the room, Fleur_Delacour was jabbering away in french to her mother. Fleur_Delacour’s little sister, Gabrielle_Delacour, was holding her mother’s hand. she waved at Harry_Potter, who waved back. then he saw Molly_Weasley and William_Weasley standing in front of the fireplace, beaming at him. ‘surprise!’ Molly_Weasley said excitedly, as Harry_Potter smiled broadly, and walked over to them. ‘thought we’d come and watch you, Harry_Potter!’ she bent down and kissed him on the cheek. ‘you all right?’ said bill, grinning at Harry_Potter and shaking his hand. ‘Charles_Weasley wanted to come, but he couldn’t get time off. he said you were incredible against the horntail.’ Fleur_Delacour, Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory, was eyeing William_Weasley with great interest over her mother’s shoulder. Harry_Potter could tell she had no objection whatsoever to long hair or earrings with Fangs on them. ‘this is really nice of you,’ Harry_Potter muttered to Molly_Weasley. ‘i thought for a moment – Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley –’ ‘hmm,’ said Molly_Weasley, pursing her lips. she had always refrained from criticising Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley in front of Harry_Potter, but her eyes flashed every time they were mentioned. ‘it’s great being back here,’ said bill, looking around the chamber (violet, the Fat_Lady’s friend, winked at him from her frame). ‘haven’t seen this place for five years. is that picture of the mad Knight_with_an_arrow_sticking_out_of_his_forehead still around? sir Cadogan?’ ‘oh, yeah,’ said Harry_Potter, who had met sir Cadogan the previous year. ‘and the Fat_Lady?’ said bill. ‘she was here in my time,’ said Molly_Weasley. ‘she gave me such a telling- off one night when i got back to the dormitory at four in the morning –’ ‘what were you doing out of your dormitory at four in the morning?’ said bill, surveying Molly_Weasley with amazement. Molly_Weasley grinned, her eyes twinkling. ‘your father and i had been for a night-time stroll,’ she said. ‘he got caught by apollyon pringle – he was the caretaker in those days – your father’s still got the marks.’ ‘fancy giving us a tour, Harry_Potter?’ said bill. ‘yeah, ok,’ said Harry_Potter, and they made their way back towards the door into the great hall. as they passed Amos_Diggory, he looked around. ‘there you are, are you?’ he said, looking Harry_Potter up and down. ‘bet you’re not feeling quite as full of yourself now Cedric_Diggory’s caught you up on points, are you?’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘ignore him,’ said Cedric_Diggory in a low voice to Harry_Potter, frowning after his father. ‘he’s been angry ever since Rita_Skeeter’s article about the triwizard tournament – you know, when she made out you were the only hogwarts champion.’ ‘didn’t bother to correct her, though, did he?’ said Amos_Diggory, loudly enough for Harry_Potter to hear as he made to walk out of the door with Molly_Weasley and bill. ‘still … you’ll show him, Cedric_Diggory. beaten him once before, haven’t you?’ ‘Rita_Skeeter goes out of her way to cause trouble, Amos_Diggory!’ Molly_Weasley said angrily. ‘i would have thought you’d know that, working at the ministry!’ mr diggory looked as though he was going to say something angry, but his wife laid a hand on his arm, and he merely shrugged and turned away. Harry_Potter had a very enjoyable morning walking over the sunny grounds with William_Weasley and Molly_Weasley, showing them the beauxbatons carriage and the durmstrang ship. Molly_Weasley was intrigued by the whomping willow, which had been planted after she had left school, and reminisCedric_Diggory at length about the gamekeeper before Rubeus_Hagrid, a man called ogg. ‘how’s Percy_Weasley?’ Harry_Potter asked, as they walked around the greenhouses. ‘not good,’ said bill. ‘he’s very upset,’ said Molly_Weasley, lowering her voice and glancing around. ‘the ministry want to keep mr crouch’s disappearance quiet, but Percy_Weasley’s been hauled in for questioning about the instructions mr crouch has been sending in. they seem to think there’s a chance they weren’t genuinely written by him. Percy_Weasley’s been under a lot of strain. they’re not letting him fill in for mr crouch as the fifth judge tonight. Cornelius_Fudge is going to be doing it.’ they returned to the castle for lunch. ‘mum – bill!’ said Ronald_Weasley looking stunned, as he joined the gryffindor table. ‘what’re you doing here?’ ‘come to watch Harry_Potter in the last task!’ said Molly_Weasley brightly. ‘i must say, it makes a lovely change, not having to Cook_of_The_Hanged_Man. how was your exam?’ ‘oh … ok,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘couldn’t remember all the goblin rebels’ names, so i invented a few. it’s all right,’ he said, helping himself to a cornish pasty, while Molly_Weasley looked stern, ‘they’re all called stuff like bodrod the bearded and urg the unclean, it wasn’t hard.’ Fred_Weasley, George_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley came to sit next to them, too, and Harry_Potter was having such a good time he felt almost as though he was back at the burrow; he had forgotten to worry about that evening’s task, and it wasn’t until Hermione_Granger turned up, halfway through lunch, did he remember that she had had a brainwave about Rita_Skeeter. ‘are you going to tell us –?’ Hermione_Granger shook her head warningly, and glanCedric_Diggory at Molly_Weasley. ‘hello, Hermione_Granger,’ said Molly_Weasley, much more stiffly than usual. ‘hello,’ said Hermione_Granger, her smile faltering at the cold expression on Molly_Weasley’s face. Harry_Potter looked between them, then said, ‘Molly_Weasley, you didn’t believe that rubbish Rita_Skeeter wrote in witch weekly, did you? because Hermione_Granger’s not my girlfriend.’ ‘oh!’ said Molly_Weasley. ‘no – of course i didn’t!’ but she became considerably warmer towards Hermione_Granger after that. Harry_Potter, William_Weasley and Molly_Weasley whiled away the afternoon with a long walk around the castle, and then returned to the great hall for the evening feast. Ludovic_Bagman bagman and Cornelius_Fudge had joined the staff table now. bagman looked quite cheerful, but Cornelius_Fudge, who was sitting next to madame talking. madame maxime was maxime, concentrating on her plate, and Harry_Potter thought her eyes looked red. Rubeus_Hagrid kept glancing along the table at her. looked stern and was not  there were more courses than usual, but Harry_Potter, who was starting to feel really nervous now, didn’t eat much. as the enchanted ceiling overhead began to fade from blue to a dusky purple, Albus_Dumbledore rose to his feet at the staff table, and silence fell. ‘ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes’ time, i will be asking you to make your way down to the quidditch pitch for the third and last task of the triwizard tournament. will the champions please follow mr bagman down to the stadium now.’ Harry_Potter got up. the gryffindors all along the table were applauding him; the weasleys and Hermione_Granger all wished him good luck, and he headed off out of the great hall, with Cedric_Diggory, Fleur_Delacour and krum. ‘feeling all right, Harry_Potter?’ bagman asked, as they went down the stone steps into the grounds. ‘confident?’ ‘i’m ok,’ said Harry_Potter. it was sort of true; he was nervous, but he kept running over all the hexes and spells he had been practising in his mind as they walked, and the knowledge that he could remember them all made him feel better. they walked onto the quidditch pitch, which was now completely unrecognisable. a twenty-foot-high hedge ran all the way around the edge of it. there was a gap right in front of them; the entrance to the vast maze. the passage beyond it looked dark and creepy. five minutes later, the stands had begun to fill; the air was full of excited voices and the rumbling of feet as the hundreds of students filed into their seats. the sky was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars were starting to appear. Rubeus_Hagrid, professor moody, professor Minerva_McGonagall and professor flitwick came walking into the stadium and approached bagman and the champions. they were wearing large, red, luminous stars on their hats, all except Rubeus_Hagrid, who had his on the back of his moleskin waistcoat. ‘we are going to be patrolling the outside of the maze,’ said professor Minerva_McGonagall to the champions. ‘if you get into difficulty, and wish to be rescued, send red sparks into the air, and one of us will come and get you, do you understand?’ the champions nodded. ‘off you go, then!’ said bagman brightly to the four patrollers. ‘good luck, Harry_Potter,’ Rubeus_Hagrid whispered, and the four of them walked away in different directions, to station themselves around the maze. bagman now pointed his wand at his throat, muttered ‘sonorus’, and his magically magnified voice echoed into the stands. ‘ladies and gentlemen, the third and final task of the triwizard tournament is about to begin! let me remind you how the points currently stand! tied in first place, on eighty-five points each – mr Cedric_Diggory and mr Harry_Potter, both of hogwarts school!’ the cheers and applause sent birds from the forbidden forest fluttering into the darkening sky. ‘in second place, on eighty points – mr Viktor_Krum, of durmstrang institute!’ more applause. ‘and in third place – miss Fleur_Delacour, of beauxbatons academy!’ Harry_Potter could just make out Molly_Weasley, bill, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger applauding Fleur_Delacour politely, halfway up the stands. he waved up at them, and they waved back, beaming at him. ‘so … on my whistle, Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory!’ said bagman. ‘three – two – one –’ he gave a short blast on his whistle, and Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory hurried forwards into the maze. the towering hedges cast black shadows across the path, and, whether because they were so tall and thick, or because they had been enchanted, the sound of the surrounding crowd was silenCedric_Diggory the moment they entered the maze. Harry_Potter felt almost as though he was underwater again. he pulled out his wand, muttered ‘lumos’, and heard Cedric_Diggory do the same just behind him. after about fifty yards, they reached a fork. they looked at each other. ‘see you,’ Harry_Potter said, and he took the left one, while Cedric_Diggory took the right. Harry_Potter heard bagman’s whistle for the second time. krum had entered the maze. Harry_Potter sped up. his chosen path seemed completely deserted. he turned right, and hurried on, holding his wand high over his head, trying to see as far ahead as possible. still, there was nothing in sight. bagman’s whistle blew in the distance for the third time. all of the champions were now inside the maze. Harry_Potter kept looking behind him. the old feeling that he was being watched was upon him. the maze was growing darker with every passing minute as the sky overhead deepened to navy. he reached a second fork. ‘point me,’ he whispered to his wand, holding it flat in his palm. the wand spun around once, and pointed towards his right, into solid hedge. that way was north, and he knew that he needed to go north-west for the centre of the maze. the best he could do was to take the left fork, and go right again as soon as possible. the path ahead was empty, too, and when Harry_Potter reached a right turn and took it, he again found his way unblocked. Harry_Potter didn’t know why, but the lack of obstacles was unnerving him. surely he should have met something by now? it felt as though the maze was luring him into a false sense of security. then he heard movement right behind him. he held out his wand, ready to attack, but its beam fell only upon Cedric_Diggory, who had just hurried out of a path on the right-hand side. Cedric_Diggory looked severely shaken. the sleeve of his robes was smoking. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid’s Blast-Ended_Skrewts!’ he hissed. ‘they’re enormous – i only just got away!’ he shook his head, and dived out of sight, along another path. keen to put plenty of distance between himself and the skrewts, Harry_Potter hurried off again. then, as he turned a corner, he saw – a dementor was gliding towards him. twelve feet tall, its face hidden by its hood, its rotting, scabbed hands outstretched, it advanCedric_Diggory, sensing its way blindly towards him. Harry_Potter could hear its rattling breath; he felt clammy coldness stealing over him, but knew what he had to do … he summoned the happiest thought he could, concentrated with all his might on the thought of getting out of the maze and celebrating with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, raised his wand and cried, ‘expecto patronum!’ a silver stag erupted from the end of Harry_Potter’s wand and galloped towards the dementor, which fell back, and tripped over the hem of its robes … Harry_Potter had never seen a dementor stumble. ‘hang on!’ he shouted, advancing in the wake of his silver patronus, ‘you’re a boggart! riddikulus!’ there was a loud crack, and the shape-shifter exploded in a wisp of smoke. the silver stag faded from sight. Harry_Potter wished it could have stayed, he could have used some company … but he moved on as quickly and quietly as possible, listening hard, his wand held high once more. left … right … left again … twice he found himself facing dead ends. he did the four-point spell again, and found that he was going too far east. he turned back, took a right turn, and saw an odd golden mist floating ahead of him. Harry_Potter approached it cautiously, pointing the wand’s beam at it. this looked like some kind of enchantment. he wondered whether he might be able to blast it out of the way. ‘reducto!’ he said. the spell shot straight through the mist, leaving it intact. he supposed he should have known better; the reductor curse was for solid objects. what would happen if he walked through the mist? was it worth chancing it, or should he double back? he was still hesitating, when a scream shattered the silence. ‘Fleur_Delacour?’ Harry_Potter yelled. there was silence. he stared all around him. what had happened to her? her scream seemed to have come from somewhere ahead. he took a deep breath, and ran through the enchanted mist. the world turned upside-down. Harry_Potter was hanging from the ground, with his hair on end, his glasses dangling off his nose, threatening to fall into the bottomless sky. he clutched them to the end of his nose and hung there, terrified. it felt as though his feet were glued to the grass, which had now become the ceiling. below him the dark, star-spangled heavens stretched endlessly. he felt as though if he tried to move one of his feet, he would fall away from the earth completely. think, he told himself, as all the blood rushed to his head, think … but not one of the spells he had practised had been designed to combat a sudden reversal of ground and sky. did he dare move his foot? he could hear the blood pounding in his ears. he had two choices – try and move, or send up red sparks, and get rescued and disqualified from the task. he shut his eyes, so he wouldn’t be able to see the view of endless space below him, and pulled his right foot as hard as he could, away from the grassy ceiling. immediately, the world righted itself. Harry_Potter fell forwards onto his knees on the wonderfully solid ground. he felt temporarily limp with shock. he took a deep, steadying breath, then got up again, and hurried forwards, looking back over his shoulder as he ran out of the golden mist, which twinkled innocently at him in the moonlight. he paused at a junction of two paths and looked around for some sign of Fleur_Delacour. he was sure it had been she who had screamed. what had she met? was she all right? there was no sign of red sparks – did that mean she had got herself out of trouble, or was she in such trouble that she couldn’t reach her wand? Harry_Potter took the right fork with a feeling of increasing unease … but at the same time, he couldn’t help thinking, one champion down … the cup was somewhere close by, and it sounded as though Fleur_Delacour was no longer in the running. he’d got this far, hadn’t he? what if he actually managed to win? fleetingly, and for the first time since he’d found himself champion, he saw again that image of himself, raising the triwizard cup in front of the rest of the school … he met nothing for ten minutes, except dead ends. twice he took the same wrong turning. finally he found a new route, and started to jog along it, his wand-light waving, making his shadow flicker and distort on the hedge walls. then he rounded another corner, and found himself facing a Blast-Ended_Skrewt. Cedric_Diggory was right – it was enormous. ten feet long, it looked more like a giant scorpion than anything. its long sting was curled over its back. its thick armour glinted in the light from Harry_Potter’s wand, which he pointed at it. ‘stupefy!’ the spell hit the skrewt’s armour, and rebounded; Harry_Potter ducked just in time, but could smell burning hair; it had singed the top of his head. the skrewt issued a blast of fire from its end, and flew forwards towards him. ‘impedimenta!’ Harry_Potter yelled. the spell hit the skrewt’s armour again and ricocheted off; Harry_Potter staggered back a few paces and fell over. ‘impedimenta!’ the skrewt was inches from him when it froze – he had managed to hit it on its fleshy, shell-less underside. panting, Harry_Potter pushed himself away from it and ran, hard, in the opposite direction – the impediment jinx was not permanent, the skrewt would be regaining the use of its legs at any moment. he took a left path, and hit a dead end, a right, and hit another: forcing himself to stop, heart hammering, he performed the four-point spell again, backtracked, and chose a path that would take him north-west. he had been hurrying along the new path for a few minutes, when he heard something in the path running parallel to his own which made him stop dead. ‘what are you doing?’ yelled Cedric_Diggory’s voice. ‘what the hell d’you think you’re doing?’ and then Harry_Potter heard krum’s voice. ‘crucio!’ the air was suddenly full of Cedric_Diggory’s yells. horrified, Harry_Potter began sprinting up his path, trying to find a way into Cedric_Diggory’s. when none appeared, he tried the reductor curse again. it wasn’t very effective, but it burnt a small hole in the hedge, through which Harry_Potter forCedric_Diggory his leg, kicking at the thick brambles and branches until they broke and made an opening; he struggled through it, tearing his robes and, looking to his right, saw Cedric_Diggory jerking and twitching on the ground, krum standing over him. Harry_Potter pulled himself up and pointed his wand at krum just as krum looked up. krum turned and began to run. ‘stupefy!’ Harry_Potter yelled. the spell hit krum in the back; he stopped dead in his tracks, fell forwards and lay motionless, face down in the grass. Harry_Potter dashed over to Cedric_Diggory, who had stopped twitching, and was lying there panting, his hands over his face. ‘are you all right?’ Harry_Potter said roughly, grabbing Cedric_Diggory’s arm. ‘yeah,’ panted Cedric_Diggory. ‘yeah … i don’t believe it … he crept up behind me … i heard him, i turned round, and he had his wand on me …’ Cedric_Diggory got up. he was still shaking. he and Harry_Potter looked down at krum. ‘i can’t believe this … i thought he was all right,’ Harry_Potter said, staring at krum. ‘so did i,’ said Cedric_Diggory. ‘did you hear Fleur_Delacour scream earlier?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah,’ said Cedric_Diggory. ‘you don’t think krum got her, too?’ ‘i don’t know,’ said Harry_Potter slowly. ‘should we leave him here?’ Cedric_Diggory muttered. ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘i reckon we should send up red sparks. someone’ll come and collect him … otherwise he’ll probably be eaten by a skrewt.’ ‘he’d deserve it,’ Cedric_Diggory muttered, but all the same, he raised his wand and shot a shower of red sparks into the air, which hovered high above krum, marking the spot where he lay. Harry_Potter and Cedric_Diggory stood there in the darkness for a moment, looking around them. then Cedric_Diggory said, ‘well … i s’pose we’d better go on …’ ‘what?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘oh … yeah … right …’ it was an odd moment. he and Cedric_Diggory had been briefly united against krum – now the fact that they were opponents came back to them both. they proceeded up the dark path without speaking, then Harry_Potter turned left, and Cedric_Diggory right. Cedric_Diggory’s footsteps soon died away. Harry_Potter moved on, continuing to use the four-point spell, making sure he was moving in the right direction. it was between him and Cedric_Diggory now. his desire to reach the cup first was now burning stronger than ever, but he could hardly believe what he’d just seen krum do. the use of an unforgivable curse on a fellow human being meant a life term in azkaban, that was what moody had told them. krum surely couldn’t have wanted the triwizard cup that badly … Harry_Potter sped up. every so often he hit more dead ends, but the increasing darkness made him feel sure he was getting near the heart of the maze. then, as he strode down a long, straight path, he saw movement once again, and his beam of wand-light hit an extraordinary creature, one which he had only seen in picture form, in his monster book of monsters. it was a sphinx. it had the body of an overlarge lion; great clawed paws, and a long yellowish tail ending in a brown tuft. its head, however, was that of a woman. she turned her long, almond-shaped eyes upon Harry_Potter as he approached. he raised his wand, hesitating. she was not crouching as if to spring, but pacing from side to side of the path, blocking his progress. then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice. ‘you are very near your goal. the quickest way is past me.’ ‘so … so will you move, please?’ said Harry_Potter, knowing what the answer was going to be. ‘no,’ she said, continuing to pace. ‘not unless you can answer my riddle. answer on your first guess – i let you pass. answer wrongly – i attack. remain silent – i will let you walk away from me, unscathed.’ Harry_Potter’s stomach slipped several notches. it was Hermione_Granger who was good at this sort of thing, not him. he weighed his chances. if the riddle was too hard, he could keep silent, get away from her unharmed, and try and find an alternative route to the centre. ‘ok,’ he said. ‘can i hear the riddle?’ the sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very centre of the path, and recited: ‘first think of the person who lives in disguise, who deals in secrets and tells naught but lies. next, tell me what’s always the last thing to mend, the middle of middle and end of the end? and finally give me the sound often heard during the search for a hard-to-find word. now string them together, and answer me this, which creature would you be unwilling to kiss?’ Harry_Potter gaped at her. ‘could i have it again … more slowly?’ he asked tentatively. she blinked at him, smiled, and repeated the poem. ‘all the clues add up to a creature i wouldn’t want to kiss?’ Harry_Potter asked. she merely smiled her mysterious smile. Harry_Potter took that for a ‘yes’. Harry_Potter cast his mind around. there were plenty of animals he wouldn’t want to kiss; his immediate thought was a Blast-Ended_Skrewt, but something told him that wasn’t the answer. he’d have to try and work out the clues … ‘a person in disguise,’ Harry_Potter muttered, staring at her, ‘who lies … er … that’d be a – an impostor. no, that’s not my guess! a – a spy? i’ll come back to that … could you give me the next clue again, please?’ she repeated the next lines of the poem. ‘the last thing to mend,’ Harry_Potter repeated. ‘er … no idea … middle of middle … could i have the last bit again?’ she gave him the last four lines. ‘a sound often heard in the search for a hard-to-find word,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘er … that’d be … er … hang on – “er”! “er”’s a sound!’ the sphinx smiled at him. ‘spy … er … spy … er …’ said Harry_Potter, pacing up and down himself. ‘a creature i wouldn’t want to kiss … a spider!’ the sphinx smiled more broadly. she got up, stretched her front legs, and then moved aside for him to pass. ‘thanks!’ said Harry_Potter, and, amazed at his own brilliance, he dashed forwards. he had to be close now, he had to be … his wand was telling him he was bang on course; as long as he didn’t meet anything too horrible, he might be   in with a chance … he had a choice of paths up ahead. ‘point me!’ he whispered again to his wand, and it spun around and pointed him to the right-hand one. he dashed up this one, and saw light ahead. the triwizard cup was gleaming on a plinth a hundred yards away. Harry_Potter had just broken into a run, when a dark figure hurtled out onto the path in front of him. Cedric_Diggory was going to get there first. Cedric_Diggory was sprinting as fast as he could towards the cup, and Harry_Potter knew he would never catch up, Cedric_Diggory was much taller, had much longer legs – then Harry_Potter saw something immense over a hedge to his left, moving quickly along a path that intersected with his own; it was moving so fast Cedric_Diggory was about to run into it, and Cedric_Diggory, his eyes on the cup, had not seen it – ‘Cedric_Diggory!’ Harry_Potter bellowed. ‘on your left!’ Cedric_Diggory looked around just in time to hurl himself past the thing and avoid colliding with it but, in his haste, he tripped. Harry_Potter saw Cedric_Diggory’s wand fly out of his hand, as a gigantic spider stepped into the path, and began to bear down upon Cedric_Diggory. ‘stupefy!’ Harry_Potter yelled again; the spell hit the spider’s gigantic, hairy black body but, for all the good it did, he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider jerked, scuttled around, and ran at Harry_Potter instead. ‘stupefy! impedimenta! stupefy!’ but it was no use – the spider was either so large, or so magical, that the spells were doing no more than aggravating it – Harry_Potter had one horrifying glimpse of eight shining black eyes, and razor-sharp Irma_Pincers, before it was upon him. he was lifted into the air in its front legs; struggling madly, he tried to kick it; his leg connected with the Irma_Pincers and next moment he was in excruciating pain – he could hear Cedric_Diggory yelling ‘stupefy!’ too, but his spell had no more effect than Harry_Potter’s – Harry_Potter raised his wand as the spider opened its Irma_Pincers once more, and shouted, ‘expelliarmus!’ it worked – the disarming spell made the spider drop him, but that meant that Harry_Potter fell twelve feet onto his already injured leg, which crumpled beneath him. without pausing to think, he aimed high at the spider’s underbelly, as he had done with the skrewt, and shouted ‘stupefy!’ just as Cedric_Diggory yelled the same thing. the two spells combined did what one alone had not – the spider keeled over sideways, flattening a nearby hedge, and strewing the path with a tangle of hairy legs. ‘Harry_Potter!’ he heard Cedric_Diggory shouting. ‘you all right? did it fall on you?’ ‘no,’ Harry_Potter called back, panting. he looked down at his leg. it was bleeding badly. he could see some sort of thick, gluey secretion from the spider’s Irma_Pincers on his torn robes. he tried to get up, but his leg was shaking badly and did not want to support his weight. he leant against the hedge, gasping for breath, and looked around. Cedric_Diggory was standing feet from the triwizard cup, which was gleaming behind him. ‘take it, then,’ Harry_Potter panted to Cedric_Diggory. ‘go on, take it. you’re there.’ but Cedric_Diggory didn’t move. he merely stood there, looking at Harry_Potter. then he turned to stare at the cup. Harry_Potter saw the longing expression on his face in its golden light. Cedric_Diggory looked around at Harry_Potter again, who was now holding onto the hedge to support himself. Cedric_Diggory took a deep breath. ‘you take it. you should win. that’s twice you’ve saved my neck in here.’ ‘that’s not how it’s supposed to work,’ Harry_Potter said. he felt angry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all his efforts, Cedric_Diggory had beaten him to it, just as he’d beaten Harry_Potter to ask Cho_Chang to the ball. ‘the one who reaches the cup first gets the points. that’s you. i’m telling you, i’m not going to win any races on this leg.’ Cedric_Diggory took a few paces nearer to the stunned spider, away from the cup, shaking his head. ‘no,’ he said. ‘stop being noble,’ said Harry_Potter irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘just take it, then we can get out of here.’ Cedric_Diggory watched Harry_Potter steadying himself, holding tight to the hedge. ‘you told me about the dragons,’ Cedric_Diggory said. ‘i would’ve gone down in the first task if you hadn’t told me what was coming.’ ‘i had help on that, too,’ Harry_Potter snapped, trying to mop up his Bloody_Baron leg with his robes. ‘you helped me with the egg – we’re square.’ ‘i had help on the egg in the first place,’ said Cedric_Diggory. ‘we’re still square,’ said Harry_Potter, testing his leg gingerly; it shook violently as he put weight on it; he had sprained his ankle when the spider had dropped him. ‘you should’ve got more points on the second task,’ said Cedric_Diggory mulishly. ‘you stayed behind to get all the hostages. i should’ve done that.’ ‘i was the only one who was thick enough to take that song seriously!’ said Harry_Potter bitterly. ‘just take the cup!’ ‘no,’ said Cedric_Diggory. he stepped over the spider’s tangled legs to join Harry_Potter, who stared at him. Cedric_Diggory was serious. he was walking away from the sort of glory hufflepuff house hadn’t had in centuries. ‘go on,’ Cedric_Diggory said. he looked as though this was costing him every ounce of resolution he had, but his face was set, his arms were folded, he seemed decided. Harry_Potter looked from Cedric_Diggory to the cup. for one shining moment, he saw himself emerging from the maze, holding it. he saw himself holding the triwizard cup aloft, heard the roar of the crowd, saw cho’s face shining with admiration, more clearly than he had ever seen it before … and then the picture faded, and he found himself staring at Cedric_Diggory’s shadowy, stubborn face. ‘both of us,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘what?’ ‘we’ll take it at the same time. it’s still a hogwarts victory. we’ll tie for it.’ Cedric_Diggory stared at Harry_Potter. he unfolded his arms. ‘you – you sure?’ ‘yeah,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘yeah … we’ve helped each other out, haven’t we? we both got here. let’s just take it together.’ for a moment, Cedric_Diggory looked as though he couldn’t believe his ears; then his face split in a grin. ‘you’re on,’ he said. ‘come here.’ he grabbed Harry_Potter’s arm below the shoulder, and helped Harry_Potter limp towards the plinth where the cup stood. when they had reached it, they both held out a hand over one of the cup’s gleaming handles. ‘on three, right?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘one – two – three –’ he and Cedric_Diggory both grasped a handle. instantly, Harry_Potter felt a jerk somewhere behind his navel. his feet had left the ground. he could not unclench the hand holding the triwizard cup; it was pulling him onwards, in a howl of wind and swirling colour, Cedric_Diggory at his side. 