— chapter seven — bagman and crouch Harry_Potter disentangled himself from Ronald_Weasley and got to his feet. they had arrived on what appeared to be a deserted stretch of misty moor. in front of them was a pair of tired and grumpy-looking wizards, one of whom was holding a large gold watch, the other a thick roll of parchment and a quill. both were dressed as muggles, though very inexpertly; the man with the watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-length galoshes; his colleague, a kilt and a poncho. ‘morning, Basil,’ said Arthur_Weasley, picking up the boot and handing it to the kilted wizard, who threw it into a large box of used portkeys beside him; Harry_Potter could see an old newspaper, an empty drinks can and a punctured football. ‘hello there, Arthur_Weasley,’ said Basil wearily. ‘not on duty, eh? it’s all right for some … we’ve been here all night … you’d better get out of the way, we’ve got a big party coming in from the black forest at five fifteen. hang on, i’ll find your campsite … weasley … weasley …’ he consulted his parchment list. ‘about a quarter of a mile’s walk over there, first field you come to. site manager’s called mr roberts. diggory … second field … ask for mr payne.’ ‘thanks, Basil,’ said Arthur_Weasley, and he beckoned everyone to follow him. they set off across the deserted moor, unable to make out much through the mist. after about twenty minutes, a small stone cottage next to a gate swam into view. beyond it, Harry_Potter could just make out the ghostly shapes of hundreds and hundreds of tents, rising up the gentle slope of a large field towards a dark wood on the horizon. they said goodbye to the diggorys, and approached the cottage door. a man was standing in the doorway, looking out at the tents. Harry_Potter knew at a glance that this was the only real muggle for several acres. when he heard their footsteps, he turned his head to look at them. ‘morning!’ said Arthur_Weasley brightly. ‘morning,’ said the muggle. ‘would you be mr roberts?’    ‘aye, i would,’ said mr roberts. ‘and who’re you?’ ‘weasley – two tents, booked a couple of days ago?’ ‘aye,’ said mr roberts, consulting a list tacked to the door. ‘you’ve got a space up by the wood there. just the one night?’ ‘that’s it,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘you’ll be paying now, then?’ said mr roberts. ‘ah – right – certainly –’ said Arthur_Weasley. he retreated a short distance from the cottage and beckoned Harry_Potter towards him. ‘help me, Harry_Potter,’ he muttered, pulling a roll of muggle money from his pocket and starting to peel the notes apart. ‘this one’s a – a – a ten? ah yes, i see the little number on it now … so this is a five?’ ‘a twenty,’ Harry_Potter corrected him in an undertone, uncomfortably aware of mr roberts trying to catch every word. ‘ah yes, so it is … i don’t know, these little bits of paper …’ ‘you foreign?’ said mr roberts, as Arthur_Weasley returned with the correct notes. ‘foreign?’ repeated Arthur_Weasley, puzzled. ‘you’re not the first one who’s had trouble with money,’ said mr roberts, scrutinising Arthur_Weasley closely. ‘i had two try and pay me with great gold coins the size of hubcaps ten minutes ago.’ ‘did you really?’ said Arthur_Weasley nervously. mr roberts rummaged around in a tin for some change. ‘never been this crowded,’ he said suddenly, looking out over the misty field again. ‘hundreds of pre-bookings. people usually just turn up …’ ‘is that right?’ said Arthur_Weasley, his hand held out for his change, but mr roberts didn’t give it to him. ‘aye,’ he said thoughtfully. ‘people from all over. loads of foreigners. and not just foreigners. weirdos, you know? there’s a bloke walking round in a kilt and a poncho.’ ‘shouldn’t he?’ said Arthur_Weasley anxiously. ‘it’s like some sort of … i dunno … like some sort of rally,’ said mr roberts. ‘they all seem to know each other. like a big party.’ at that moment, a wizard in plus-fours appeared out of thin air next to mr roberts’s front door. ‘obliviate!’ he said sharply, pointing his wand at mr roberts. instantly, mr roberts’s eyes slid out of focus, his brows unknitted and a look of dreamy unconcern fell over his face. Harry_Potter recognised the symptoms of one who had just had his memory modified. ‘a map of the campsite for you,’ mr roberts said placidly to Arthur_Weasley. ‘and your change.’ ‘thanks very much,’ said Arthur_Weasley. the wizard in plus-fours accompanied them towards the gate to the campsite. he looked exhausted; his chin was blue with stubble and there were deep purple shadows under his eyes. once out of earshot of mr roberts, he muttered to Arthur_Weasley, ‘been having a lot of trouble with him. needs a memory charm ten times a day to keep him happy. and Ludovic_Bagman bagman’s not helping. trotting around talking about bludgers and quaffles at the top of his voice, not a worry about anti-muggle security. blimey, i’ll be glad when this is over. see you later, Arthur_Weasley.’ he disapparated. ‘i thought mr bagman was head of magical games and sports?’ said Ginevra_Weasley, looking surprised. ‘he should know better than to talk about bludgers near muggles, shouldn’t he?’ ‘he should,’ said Arthur_Weasley, smiling, and leading them through the gates into the campsite, ‘but Ludovic_Bagman’s always been a bit … well … lax about security. you couldn’t wish for a more enthusiastic head of the sports department, though. he played quidditch for england himself, you know. and he was the best beater the wimbourne wasps ever had.’ they trudged up the misty field between long rows of tents. most looked almost ordinary; their owners had clearly tried to make them as muggle-like as possible, but had slipped up by adding chimneys, or bell-pulls, or weather- vanes. however, here and there was a tent so obviously magical that Harry_Potter could hardly be surprised that mr roberts was getting suspicious. halfway up the field stood an extravagant confection of striped silk like a miniature palace, with several live peacocks tethered at the entrance. a little further on they passed a tent that had three floors and several turrets; and a short way beyond that was a tent which had a front garden attached, complete with birdbath, sundial and fountain. ‘always the same,’ said Arthur_Weasley, smiling, ‘we can’t resist showing off when we get together. ah, here we are, look, this is us.’ they had reached the very edge of the wood at the top of the field, and here was an empty space, with a small sign hammered into the ground that read ‘weezly’. ‘couldn’t have a better spot!’ said Arthur_Weasley happily. ‘the pitch is just on the other side of the wood there, we’re as close as we could be.’ he hoisted his backpack from his shoulders. ‘right,’ he said excitedly, ‘no magic allowed, strictly speaking, not when we’re out in these numbers on muggle land. we’ll be putting these tents up by hand! shouldn’t be too difficult … muggles do it all the time … here, Harry_Potter, where do you reckon we should start?’ Harry_Potter had never been camping in his life; Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley had never taken him on any kind of holiday, preferring to leave him with Arabella_Figg, an old neighbour. however, he and Hermione_Granger worked out where most of the poles and pegs should go, and though Arthur_Weasley was more of a hindrance than a help, because he got thoroughly over-excited when it came to using the mallet, they finally managed to erect a pair of shabby two-man tents. all of them stood back to admire their handiwork. nobody looking at these tents would guess they belonged to wizards, Harry_Potter thought, but the trouble was that once bill, Charles_Weasley and Percy_Weasley arrived, they would be a party of ten. Hermione_Granger seemed to have spotted this problem, too; she gave Harry_Potter a quizzical look as Arthur_Weasley dropped to his hands and knees and entered the first tent. ‘we’ll be a bit cramped,’ he called, ‘but i think we’ll all squeeze in. come and have a look.’ Harry_Potter bent down, ducked under the tent flap, and felt his jaw drop. he had walked into what looked like an old-fashioned, three-roomed flat, complete with bathroom and kitchen. oddly enough, it was furnished in exactly the same sort of style as Arabella_Figg’s; there were crocheted covers on the mismatched chairs, and a strong smell of cats. ‘well, it’s not for long,’ said Arthur_Weasley, mopping his bald patch with a handkerchief and peering in at the four bunk beds that stood in the bedroom. ‘i borrowed this from Perkins at the office. doesn’t camp much any more, poor fellow, he’s got lumbago.’ he picked up the dusty kettle and peered inside it. ‘we’ll need water …’ ‘there’s a tap marked on this map the muggle gave us,’ said Ronald_Weasley who had followed Harry_Potter inside the tent, and seemed completely unimpressed by its extraordinary inner proportions. ‘it’s on the other side of the field.’ ‘well, why don’t you, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger go and get us some water, then –’ Arthur_Weasley handed over the kettle and a couple of saucepans, ‘– and the rest of us will get some wood for a fire.’ ‘but we’ve got an oven,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘why can’t we just –?’ ‘ron, anti-muggle security!’ said Arthur_Weasley, his face shining with anticipation. ‘when real muggles camp, they Cook_of_The_Hanged_Man on fires outdoors, i’ve seen them at it!’ after a quick tour of the girls’ tent, which was slightly smaller than the boys’, though without the smell of cats, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger set off across the campsite with the kettle and saucepans. now, with the sun newly risen and the mist lifting, they could see the city of tents that stretched in every direction. they made their way slowly through the rows, staring eagerly around. it was only just dawning on Harry_Potter how many witches and wizards there must be in the world; he had never really thought much about those in other countries. their fellow campers were starting to wake up. first to stir were the families with small children; Harry_Potter had never seen witches and wizards this young before. a tiny boy no older than two was crouched outside a large pyramid-shaped tent, holding a wand and poking happily at a slug in the grass, which was swelling slowly to the size of a salami. as they drew level with him, his mother came hurrying out of the tent. ‘how many times, Kevin_Whitby? you don’t – touch – daddy’s – wand – yeuch!’ she had trodden on the giant slug, which burst. her scolding carried after them on the still air, mingling with the little boy’s yells – ‘you bust slug! you bust slug!’ a short way further on, they saw two little witches, barely older than Kevin_Whitby, who were riding toy broomsticks which rose only high enough for the girls’ toes to skim the dewy grass. a ministry wizard had already spotted them; as he hurried past Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, he muttered distractedly, ‘in broad daylight! parents having a lie-in, i suppose –’ here and there adult wizards and witches were emerging from their tents and starting to Cook_of_The_Hanged_Man breakfast. some, with furtive looks around them, conjured fires with their wands; others were striking matches with dubious looks on their faces, as though sure this couldn’t work. three african wizards sat in serious conversation, all of them wearing long white robes and roasting what looked like a rabbit on a bright purple fire, while a group of middle-aged amEric_Munchan witches sat gossiping happily beneath a spangled banner stretched between their tents which read: the salem witches’ institute. Harry_Potter caught snatches of conversation in strange languages from the inside of tents they passed, and though he couldn’t understand a single word, the tone of every single voice was excited. ‘er – is it my eyes, or has everything gone green?’ said Ronald_Weasley it wasn’t just ron’s eyes. they had walked into a patch of tents that were all covered with a thick growth of shamrocks, so that it looked as though small, oddly shaped hillocks had sprouted out of the earth. grinning faces could be seen under those which had their flaps open. then, from behind them, they heard their names. ‘Harry_Potter! Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger!’ it was Seamus_Finnigan, their fellow gryffindor fourth-year. he was sitting in front of his own shamrock-covered tent, with a sandy-haired woman who had to be his mother, and his best friend, Dean_Thomas, also of gryffindor. ‘like the decorations?’ said Seamus_Finnigan, grinning, when Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger had gone over to say hello. ‘the ministry’s not too happy.’ ‘ah, why shouldn’t we show our colours?’ said mrs finnigan. ‘you should see what the bulgarians have got dangling all over their tents. you’ll be supporting ireland, of course?’ she added, eyeing Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger beadily. when they had assured her that they were indeed supporting ireland, they set off again, though, as Ronald_Weasley said, ‘like we’d say anything else surrounded by that lot.’ ‘i wonder what the bulgarians have got dangling all over their tents?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘let’s go and have a look,’ said Harry_Potter, pointing to a large patch of tents upfield, where the bulgarian flag, red, green and white, was fluttering in the breeze. the tents here had not been bedecked with plant life, but each and every one of them had the same poster attached to it, a poster of a very surly face with heavy black eyebrows. the picture was of course moving, but all it did was blink and scowl. ‘krum,’ said Ronald_Weasley quietly. ‘what?’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘krum!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘Viktor_Krum, the bulgarian seeker!’ ‘he looks really grumpy,’ said Hermione_Granger, looking around at the many krums blinking and scowling at them. ‘“really grumpy”?’ Ronald_Weasley raised his eyes to the heavens. ‘who cares what he looks like? he’s unbelievable. he’s really young, too. only just eighteen or something. he’s a genius, you wait until tonight, you’ll see.’ there was already a small queue for the tap in the corner of the field. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger joined it, right behind a pair of men who were having a heated argument. one of them was a very old wizard who was wearing a long flowery nightgown. the other was clearly a ministry wizard; he was holding out a pair of pinstriped trousers and almost crying with exasperation. ‘just put them on, Archie_Aymslowe, there’s a good chap, you can’t walk around like that, the muggle on the gate’s already getting suspicious –’ ‘i bought this in a muggle shop,’ said the old wizard stubbornly. ‘muggles wear them.’ ‘muggle women wear them, Archie_Aymslowe, not the men, they wear these,’ said the ministry wizard, and he brandished the pinstriped trousers. ‘i’m not putting them on,’ said old Archie_Aymslowe in indignation. ‘i like a healthy breeze round my privates, thanks.’ Hermione_Granger was overcome with such a strong fit of the giggles at this point that she had to duck out of the queue, and only returned when Archie_Aymslowe had collected his water and moved away again. walking more slowly now, because of the weight of the water, they made their way back through the campsite. here and there they saw more familiar faces: other hogwarts students with their families. Oliver_Wood, the old captain of Harry_Potter’s house quidditch team, who had just left hogwarts, dragged Harry_Potter over to his parents’ tent to introduce him, and told him excitedly that he had just been signed to the puddlemere united reserve team. next they were hailed by Ernest_Prangmacmillan, a hufflepuff fourth-year, and a little further on they saw Cho_Chang, a very pretty girl who played seeker on the ravenclaw team. she waved and smiled at Harry_Potter, who slopped quite a lot of water down his front as he waved back. more to stop Ronald_Weasley smirking than anything, Harry_Potter hurriedly pointed out a large group of teenagers whom he had never seen before. ‘who d’you reckon they are?’ he said. ‘they don’t go to hogwarts, do they?’ ‘’spect they go to some foreign school,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘i know there are others, never met anyone who went to one though. William_Weasley had a pen-friend at a school in brazil … this was years and years ago … and he wanted to go on an exchange trip but mum and dad couldn’t afford it. his pen-friend got all offended when he said he wasn’t going and sent him a cursed hat. it made his ears shrivel up.’ Harry_Potter laughed, but didn’t voice the amazement he felt at hearing about other wizarding schools. he supposed, now he saw representatives of so many nationalities in the campsite, that he had been stupid never to realise that hogwarts couldn’t be the only one. he glanced at Hermione_Granger, who looked utterly unsurprised by the information. no doubt she had run across the news about other wizarding schools in some book or other. ‘you’ve been ages,’ said George_Weasley, when they finally got back to the weasleys’ tents. ‘met a few people,’ said Ronald_Weasley setting the water down. ‘you not got that fire started yet?’ ‘dad’s having fun with the matches,’ said Fred_Weasley. Arthur_Weasley was having no success at all in lighting the fire, but it wasn’t for lack of trying. splintered matches littered the ground around him, but he looked as though he was having the time of his life. ‘oops!’ he said, as he managed to light a match, and promptly dropped it in surprise. ‘come here, Arthur_Weasley,’ said Hermione_Granger kindly, taking the box from him, and starting to show him how to do it properly. at last, they got the fire lit, though it was at least another hour before it was hot enough to Cook_of_The_Hanged_Man anything. there was plenty to watch while they waited, however. their tent seemed to be pitched right alongside a kind of thoroughfare to the pitch, and ministry members kept hurrying up and down it, greeting Arthur_Weasley cordially as they passed. Arthur_Weasley kept up a running commentary, mainly for Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger’s benefit; his own children knew too much about the ministry to be greatly interested. ‘that was Cuthbert_Binns mockridge, head of the goblin liaison office … here comes gilbert wimple, he’s with the committee on experimental charms, he’s had those horns for a while now … hello, arnie … Arnold peasegood, he’s an obliviator – member of the accidental magic reversal squad, you know … and that’s Broderick_Bode and croaker … they’re unspeakables …’ ‘they’re what?’ ‘from the department of mysteries, top-secret, no idea what they get up to …’ at last, the fire was ready, and they had just started Cook_of_The_Hanged_Maning eggs and sausages when bill, Charles_Weasley and Percy_Weasley came strolling out of the woods towards them. ‘just apparated, dad,’ said Percy_Weasley loudly. ‘ah, excellent, lunch!’ they were halfway through their plates of sausages and eggs when Arthur_Weasley jumped to his feet, waving and grinning at a man who was striding towards them. ‘aha!’ he said. ‘the man of the moment! Ludovic_Bagman!’ Ludovic_Bagman bagman was easily the most noticeable person Harry_Potter had seen so far, even including old Archie_Aymslowe in his flowered nightdress. he was wearing long quidditch robes in thick horizontal strips of bright yellow and black. an enormous picture of a wasp was splashed across his chest. he had the look of a powerfully built man gone slightly to seed; the robes were stretched tightly across a large belly he surely had not had in the days when he had played quidditch for england. his nose was squashed (probably broken by a stray bludger, Harry_Potter thought), but his round blue eyes, short blond hair and rosy complexion made him look like a very overgrown schoolboy. ‘ahoy there!’ bagman called happily. he was walking as though he had springs attached to the balls of his feet, and was plainly in a state of wild excitement. ‘Arthur_Weasley, old man,’ he puffed, as he reached the campfire, ‘what a day, eh? what a day! could we have asked for more perfect weather? a cloudless night coming … and hardly a hiccough in the arrangements … not much for me to do!’ behind him, a group of haggard-looking ministry wizards rushed past, pointing at the distant evidence of some sort of a magical fire which was sending violet sparks twenty feet into the air. Percy_Weasley hurried forwards with his hand outstretched. apparently his disapproval of the way Ludovic_Bagman bagman ran his department did not prevent him wanting to make a good impression. ‘ah – yes,’ said Arthur_Weasley, grinning, ‘this is my son, Percy_Weasley, he’s just started at the ministry – and this is Fred_Weasley – no, George_Weasley, sorry – that’s Fred_Weasley – bill, Charles_Weasley, Ronald_Weasley – my daughter, Ginevra_Weasley – and ron’s friends, Hermione_Granger and Harry_Potter.’ bagman did the smallest of double-takes when he heard Harry_Potter’s name, and his eyes performed the familiar flick upwards to the scar on Harry_Potter’s forehead. ‘everyone,’ Arthur_Weasley continued, ‘this is Ludovic_Bagman bagman, you know who he is, it’s thanks to him we’ve got such good tickets –’ bagman beamed and waved his hand as if to say it had been nothing. ‘fancy a flutter on the match, Arthur_Weasley?’ he said eagerly, jingling what seemed to be a large amount of gold in the pockets of his yellow and black robes. ‘i’ve already got roddy pontner betting me bulgaria will score first – i offered him nice odds, considering ireland’s front three are the strongest i’ve seen in years – and little agatha timms has put up half shares in her eel farm on a week-long match.’ ‘oh … go on, then,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘let’s see … a galleon on ireland to win?’ ‘a galleon?’ Ludovic_Bagman bagman looked slightly disappointed, but recovered himself. ‘very well, very well … any other takers?’ ‘they’re a bit young to be gambling,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘Molly_Weasley wouldn’t like –’ ‘we’ll bet thirty-seven galleons, fifteen sickles, three knuts,’ said Fred_Weasley, as he and George_Weasley quickly pooled all their money, ‘that ireland win – but Viktor_Krum gets the snitch. oh, and we’ll throw in a fake wand.’ ‘you don’t want to go showing mr bagman rubbish like that –’ Percy_Weasley hissed, but bagman didn’t seem to think the wand was rubbish at all; on the contrary, his boyish face shone with excitement as he took it from Fred_Weasley, and when the wand gave a loud squawk and turned into a rubber chicken, bagman roared with laughter. ‘excellent! i haven’t seen one that convincing in years! i’d pay five galleons for that!’ Percy_Weasley froze in an attitude of stunned disapproval. ‘boys,’ said Arthur_Weasley under his breath, ‘i don’t want you betting … that’s all your savings … your mother –’ ‘don’t be a spoilsport, Arthur_Weasley!’ boomed Ludovic_Bagman bagman, rattling his pockets excitedly. ‘they’re old enough to know what they want! you reckon ireland will win but krum’ll get the snitch? not a chance, boys, not a chance … i’ll give you excellent odds on that one … we’ll add five galleons for the funny wand, then, shall we …’ Arthur_Weasley looked on helplessly as Ludovic_Bagman bagman whipped out a notebook and quill and began jotting down the twins’ names. ‘cheers,’ said George_Weasley, taking the slip of parchment bagman handed him and tucking it away carefully. bagman turned most cheerfully back to Arthur_Weasley. ‘couldn’t do me a brew, i suppose? i’m keeping an eye out for Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch. my bulgarian opposite number’s making difficulties, and i can’t understand a word he’s saying. Bartemius_Crouch_Senior’ll be able to sort it out. he speaks about a hundred and fifty languages.’ ‘mr crouch?’ said Percy_Weasley, suddenly abandoning his look of poker-stiff disapproval and positively writhing with excitement. ‘he speaks over two hundred! mermish and gobbledegook and troll …’ ‘anyone can speak troll,’ said Fred_Weasley dismissively, ‘all you have to do is point and grunt.’ Percy_Weasley threw Fred_Weasley an extremely nasty look, and stoked the fire vIgor_Karkaroffously to bring the kettle back to the boil. ‘any news of Bertha_Jorkins yet, Ludovic_Bagman?’ Arthur_Weasley asked, as bagman settled himself down on the grass beside them all. ‘not a dicky bird,’ said bagman comfortably. ‘but she’ll turn up. poor old Bertha_Jorkins … memory like a leaky cauldron and no sense of direction. lost, you take my word for it. she’ll wander back into the office some time in october, thinking it’s still july.’ ‘you don’t think it might be time to send someone to look for her?’ Arthur_Weasley suggested tentatively, as Percy_Weasley handed bagman his tea. ‘Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch keeps saying that,’ said bagman, his round eyes widening innocently, ‘but we really can’t spare anyone at the moment. oh – talk of the devil! Bartemius_Crouch_Senior!’ a wizard had just apparated at their fireside, and he could not have made more of a contrast with Ludovic_Bagman bagman, sprawled on the grass in his old wasp robes. Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch was a stiff, upright, elderly man, dressed in an impeccably crisp suit and tie. the parting in his short grey hair was almost unnaturally straight and his narrow toothbrush moustache looked as though he trimmed it using a slide-rule. his shoes were very highly polished. Harry_Potter could see at once why Percy_Weasley idolised him. Percy_Weasley was a great believer in rigidly following rules, and mr crouch had complied with the rule about muggle dressing so thoroughly that he could have passed as a bank manager; Harry_Potter doubted even uncle Vernon_Dursley would have spotted him for what he really was. ‘pull up a bit of grass, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior,’ said Ludovic_Bagman brightly, patting the ground beside him. ‘no, thank you, Ludovic_Bagman,’ said crouch, and there was a bite of impatience in his voice. ‘i’ve been looking for you everywhere. the bulgarians are insisting we add another twelve seats to the top box.’ ‘oh, is that what they’re after?’ said bagman. ‘i thought the chap was asking to borrow a pair of tweezers. bit of a strong accent.’ ‘mr crouch!’ said Percy_Weasley breathlessly, sunk into a kind of half bow which made him look like a hunchback. ‘would you like a cup of tea?’ ‘oh,’ said mr crouch, looking over at Percy_Weasley in mild surprise. ‘yes – thank you, weatherby.’ Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley choked into their own cups. Percy_Weasley, very pink around the ears, busied himself with the kettle. ‘oh, and i’ve been wanting a word with you, too, Arthur_Weasley,’ said mr crouch, his sharp eyes falling upon Arthur_Weasley. ‘ali bashir’s on the warpath. he wants a word with you about your embargo on flying carpets.’ Arthur_Weasley heaved a deep sigh. ‘i sent him an owl about that just last week. if i’ve told him once i’ve told him a hundred times: carpets are defined as a muggle artefact by the registry of proscribed charmable objects, but will he listen?’ ‘i doubt it,’ said mr crouch, accepting a cup from Percy_Weasley. ‘he’s desperate to export here.’ ‘well, they’ll never replace brooms in bRita_Skeeterin, will they?’ said bagman. ‘ali thinks there’s a niche in the market for a family vehicle,’ said mr crouch. ‘i remember my grandfather had an axminster that could seat twelve – but that was before carpets were banned, of course.’ he spoke as though he wanted to leave nobody in any doubt that all his ancestors had abided strictly by the law. ‘so, been keeping busy, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior?’ said bagman breezily. ‘fairly,’ said mr crouch drily. ‘organising portkeys across five continents is no mean feat, Ludovic_Bagman.’ ‘i expect you’ll both be glad when this is over?’ said Arthur_Weasley. Ludovic_Bagman bagman looked shocked. ‘glad! don’t know when i’ve had more fun … still, it’s not as though we haven’t got anything to look forward to, eh, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior? eh? plenty left to organise, eh?’ mr crouch raised his eyebrows at bagman. ‘we agreed not to make the announcement until all the details –’ ‘oh, details!’ said bagman, waving the word away like a cloud of midges. ‘they’ve signed, haven’t they? they’ve agreed, haven’t they? i bet you anything these kids’ll know soon enough anyway. i mean, it’s happening at hogwarts –’ ‘Ludovic_Bagman, we need to meet the bulgarians, you know,’ said mr crouch sharply, cutting bagman’s remarks short. ‘thank you for the tea, weatherby.’ he pushed his undrunk tea back at Percy_Weasley and waited for Ludovic_Bagman to rise; bagman struggled to his feet again, swigging down the last of his tea, the gold in his pockets chinking merrily. ‘see you all later!’ he said. ‘you’ll be up in the top box with me – i’m commentating!’ he waved, Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch nodded curtly, and both of them disapparated. ‘what’s happening at hogwarts, dad?’ said Fred_Weasley at once. ‘what were they talking about?’ ‘you’ll find out soon enough,’ said Arthur_Weasley, smiling. ‘it’s classified information, until such time as the ministry decides to release it,’ said Percy_Weasley stiffly. ‘mr crouch was quite right not to disclose it.’ ‘oh, shut up, weatherby,’ said Fred_Weasley. a sense of excitement rose like a palpable cloud over the campsite as the afternoon wore on. by dusk, the still summer air itself seemed to be quivering with anticipation, and as darkness spread like a curtain over the thousands of waiting wizards, the last vestiges of pretence disappeared: the ministry seemed to have bowed to the inevitable, and stopped fighting the signs of blatant magic now breaking out everywhere. salesmen were apparating every few feet, carrying trays and pushing carts full of extraordinary merchandise. there were luminous rosettes – green for ireland, red for bulgaria – which were squealing the names of the players, pointed green hats bedecked with dancing shamrocks, bulgarian scarves adorned with lions that really roared, flags from both countries which played their national anthems as they were waved; there were tiny models of firebolts, which really flew, and collectible figures of famous players, which strolled across the palm of your hand, preening themselves. ‘been saving my pocket money all summer for this,’ Ronald_Weasley told Harry_Potter, as they and Hermione_Granger strolled through the salesmen, buying souvenirs. though Ronald_Weasley purchased himself a dancing-shamrock hat and a large green rosette, he also bought a small figure of Viktor_Krum, the bulgarian seeker. the miniature krum walked backwards and forwards over ron’s hand, scowling up at the green rosette above him. ‘wow, look at these!’ said Harry_Potter, hurrying over to a cart piled high with what looked like brass binoculars, except that they were covered in all sorts of weird knobs and dials. ‘omnioculars,’ said the saleswizard eagerly. ‘you can replay action … slow everything down … and they flash up a play-by-play breakdown if you need it. bargain – ten galleons each.’ ‘wish i hadn’t bought this now,’ said Ronald_Weasley gesturing at his dancing shamrock hat and gazing longingly at the omnioculars. ‘three pairs,’ said Harry_Potter firmly to the wizard. ‘no – don’t bother,’ said Ronald_Weasley going red. he was always touchy about the fact that Harry_Potter, who had inherited a small fortune from his parents, had much more money than he did. ‘you won’t be getting anything for christmas,’ Harry_Potter told him, thrusting omnioculars into his and Hermione_Granger’s hands. ‘for about ten years, mind.’ ‘fair enough,’ said Ronald_Weasley grinning. ‘oooh, thanks, Harry_Potter,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘and i’ll get us some programmes, look –’ their money bags considerably lighter, they went back to the tents. bill, Charles_Weasley and Ginevra_Weasley were all sporting green rosettes too, and Arthur_Weasley was carrying an irish flag. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had no souvenirs as they had given bagman all their gold. and then a deep, booming gong sounded somewhere beyond the woods, and, at once, green and red lanterns blazed into life in the trees, lighting a path to the pitch. ‘it’s time!’ said Arthur_Weasley, looking as excited as any of them. ‘come on, let’s go!’ 