— chapter twenty-four — Rita_Skeeter’s scoop everybody got up late on boxing day. the gryffindor common room was much quieter than it had been lately, many yawns punctuating the lazy conversations. Hermione_Granger’s hair was bushy again; she confessed to Harry_Potter that she had used liberal amounts of sleekeazy’s hair potion on it for the ball, ‘but it’s way too much bother to do every day,’ she said matter-of-factly, scratching a purring Crookshanks behind the ears. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger seemed to have reached an unspoken agreement not to discuss their argument. they were being quite friendly to each other, though oddly formal. Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter wasted no time in telling Hermione_Granger about the conversation they had overheard between madame maxime and Rubeus_Hagrid, but Hermione_Granger didn’t seem to find the news that Rubeus_Hagrid was a half-giant nearly as shocking as Ronald_Weasley did. ‘well, i thought he must be,’ she said, shrugging. ‘i knew he couldn’t be pure giant, because they’re about twenty feet tall. but honestly, all this hysteria about giants. they can’t all be horrible … it’s the same sort of prejudice that people have towards werewolves … it’s just bigotry, isn’t it?’ Ronald_Weasley looked as though he would have liked to reply scathingly, but perhaps he didn’t want another row, because he contented himself with shaking his head disbelievingly while Hermione_Granger wasn’t looking. it was time now to think of the homework they had neglected during the first week of the holidays. everybody seemed to be feeling rather flat, now that christmas was over – everybody except Harry_Potter, that is, who was starting (once again) to feel slightly nervous. the trouble was that february the twenty-fourth looked a lot closer from this side of christmas, and he still hadn’t done anything about working out the clue inside the golden egg. he therefore started taking the egg out of his trunk every time he went up to the dormitory, opening it and listening intently, hoping that this time it would make some sense. he strained to think what the sound reminded him of, apart from thirty musical saws, but he had never heard anything else like it. he closed the egg, shook it vIgor_Karkaroffously, and opened    it again to see if the sound had changed, but it hadn’t. he tried asking the egg questions, shouting over all the Wailing_Widow, but nothing happened. he even threw the egg across the room – though he hadn’t really expected that to help. Harry_Potter had not forgotten the hint that Cedric_Diggory had given him, but his less- than-friendly feelings towards Cedric_Diggory just now meant that he was keen not to accept his help if he could avoid it. in any case, it seemed to him that if Cedric_Diggory had really wanted to give Harry_Potter a hand, he would have been a lot more explicit. he, Harry_Potter, had told Cedric_Diggory exactly what was coming in the first task – and Cedric_Diggory’s idea of a fair exchange had been to tell Harry_Potter to take a bath. well, he didn’t need that sort of rubbishy help – not from someone who kept walking down corridors hand in hand with cho, anyway. and so the first day of the new term arrived, and Harry_Potter set off to lessons, weighed down with books, parchment and quills as usual, but also with the lurking worry of the egg heavy in his stomach, as though he was carrying that around with him too. snow was still thick upon the grounds, and the greenhouse windows were covered in condensation so thick that they couldn’t see out of them in herbology. nobody was looking forward to care of magical creatures much in this weather, though, as Ronald_Weasley said, the skrewts would probably warm them up nicely, either by chasing them or by blasting off so forcefully that Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin caught fire. when they arrived at Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin, however, they found an elderly witch with closely cropped grey hair and a very prominent chin standing before his front door. ‘hurry up, now, the bell rang five minutes ago,’ she barked at them, as they struggled towards her through the snow. ‘who’re you?’ said Ronald_Weasley staring at her. ‘where’s Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘my name is professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank,’ she said briskly, ‘i am your temporary care of magical creatures teacher.’ ‘where’s Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Harry_Potter repeated loudly. ‘he is indisposed,’ said professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank shortly. soft and unpleasant laughter reached Harry_Potter’s ears. he turned; Draco_Malfoy and the rest of the slytherins were joining the class. all of them looked gleeful, and none of them looked surprised to see professor grubbly- plank. ‘this way, please,’ said professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank, and she strode off around the paddock where the huge beauxbatons horses were shivering. Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger followed her, looking back over their shoulders at Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. all the curtains were closed. was Rubeus_Hagrid in there, alone and ill? ‘what’s wrong with Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Harry_Potter said, hurrying to catch up with professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank. ‘never you mind,’ she said, as though she thought he was being nosy. ‘i do mind, though,’ said Harry_Potter hotly. ‘what’s up with him?’ professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank acted as though she couldn’t hear him. she led them past the paddock where the beauxbatons horses were standing, huddled against the cold, and towards a tree on the edge of the forest, where a large and beautiful unicorn was tethered. many of the girls ‘ooooohed!’ at the sight of the unicorn. ‘oh, it’s so beautiful!’ whispered Lavender_Brown. ‘how did she get it? they’re supposed to be really hard to catch!’ the unicorn was so brightly white that it made the snow all around look grey. it was pawing the ground nervously with its golden hooves, and throwing back its horned head. ‘boys keep back!’ barked professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank, throwing out an arm and catching Harry_Potter hard in the chest. ‘they prefer the woman’s touch, unicorns. girls to the front, and approach with care. come on, easy does it …’ she and the girls walked slowly forwards towards the unicorn, leaving the boys standing near the paddock fence, watching. the moment professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank was out of earshot, Harry_Potter turned to Ronald_Weasley ‘what d’you reckon’s wrong with him? you don’t think a skrewt –?’ ‘oh, he hasn’t been attacked, potter, if that’s what you’re thinking,’ said malfoy softly. ‘no, he’s just too ashamed to show his big ugly face.’ ‘what d’you mean?’ said Harry_Potter sharply. malfoy put his hand inside the pocket of his robes, and pulled out a folded page of newsprint. ‘there you go,’ he said. ‘hate to break it to you, potter …’ he smirked as Harry_Potter snatched the page, unfolded it, and read it, with Ronald_Weasley Seamus_Finnigan, Dean_Thomas and Neville_Longbottom looking over his shoulder. it was an article topped with a picture of Rubeus_Hagrid looking extremely shifty. Albus_Dumbledore’s giant mistake Albus_Dumbledore, eccentric headmaster of hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry, has never been afraid to make controversial staff appointments, writes Rita_Skeeter, special correspondent. in september of this year, he hired Alastor_Moody ‘Alastor_Moody’ moody, the  notoriously jinx-happy ex-auror, to teach defence against the dark arts, a decision that caused many raised eyebrows at the ministry of magic, given moody’s well-known habit of attacking anybody who makes a sudden movement in his presence. Alastor_Moody moody, however, looks responsible and kindly, when set beside the part-human Albus_Dumbledore employs to teach care of magical creatures. Rubeus_Hagrid, who admits to being expelled from hogwarts in his third year, has enjoyed the position of gamekeeper at the school ever since, a job secured for him by Albus_Dumbledore. last year, however, Rubeus_Hagrid used his mysterious influence over the headmaster to secure the additional post of care of magical creatures teacher, over the heads of many better-qualified candidates. an alarmingly large and ferocious-looking man, Rubeus_Hagrid has been using his new-found authority to terrify the students in his care with a succession of horrific creatures. while Albus_Dumbledore turns a blind eye, Rubeus_Hagrid has maimed several pupils during a series of lessons which many admit to be ‘very frightening’. ‘i was attacked by a hippogriff, and my friend Vincent_Crabbe got a bad bite off a flobberworm,’ says Draco_Malfoy, a fourth-year student. ‘we all hate Rubeus_Hagrid, but we’re just too scared to say anything.’ Rubeus_Hagrid has no intention of ceasing his campaign of intimidation, however. in conversation with a daily prophet reporter last month, he admitted breeding creatures he has dubbed ‘Blast-Ended_Skrewts’, highly dangerous crosses between manticores and fire crabs. the creation of new breeds of magical creature is, of course, an activity usually closely observed by the department for the regulation and control of magical creatures. Rubeus_Hagrid, it seems, considers himself to be above such petty restrictions. ‘i was just having some fun,’ he says, before hastily changing the subject. as if this were not enough, the daily prophet has now unearthed evidence that Rubeus_Hagrid is not – as he has always pretended – a pure-blood wizard. he is not, in fact, even pure human. his mother, we can exclusively reveal, is none other than the giantess fridwulfa, whose whereabouts are currently unknown. bloodthirsty and brutal, the giants brought themselves to the point of extinction by warring among themselves during the last century. the handful that remained joined the ranks of he who must not be named, and were responsible for some of the worst mass muggle-killings of his reign of terror. while many of the giants who served he who must not be named were killed by aurors working against the dark side, fridwulfa was not among them. it is possible she escaped to one of the giant communities still existing in foreign mountain ranges. if his antics during care of magical creatures lessons are any guide, however, fridwulfa’s son appears to have inherited her brutal nature. in a bizarre twist, Rubeus_Hagrid is reputed to have developed a close friendship with the boy who brought about Tom_Riddle’s fall from power – thereby driving Rubeus_Hagrid’s own mother, like the rest of you-know- who’s supporters, into hiding. perhaps Harry_Potter is unaware of the unpleasant truth about his large friend – but Albus_Dumbledore surely has a duty to ensure that Harry_Potter, along with his fellow students, is warned about the dangers of associating with part-giants. Harry_Potter finished reading and looked up at Ronald_Weasley whose mouth was hanging open. ‘how did she find out?’ he whispered. but that wasn’t what was bothering Harry_Potter. ‘what d’you mean, “we all hate Rubeus_Hagrid”?’ Harry_Potter spat at malfoy. ‘what’s this rubbish about him’ – he pointed at crabbe – ‘getting a bad bite off a flobberworm? they haven’t even got teeth!’ crabbe was sniggering, apparently very pleased with himself. ‘well, i think this should put an end to the oaf’s teaching career,’ said malfoy, his eyes glinting. ‘half-giant … and there was me thinking he’d just swallowed a bottle of skele-gro when he was young … none of the mummies and daddies are going to like this at all … they’ll be worried he’ll eat their kids, ha, ha …’ ‘you –’ ‘are you paying attention over there?’ professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank’s voice carried over to the boys; the girls were all clustered around the unicorn now, stroking it. Harry_Potter was so angry that the daily prophet article shook in his hands as he turned to stare unseeingly at the unicorn, whose many magical properties professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank was now enumerating in a loud voice, so that the boys could hear too. ‘i Hope_Howell she stays, that woman!’ said Parvati_Patil, when the lesson had ended, and they were all heading back to the castle for lunch. ‘that’s more what i thought care of magical creatures would be like … proper creatures  like unicorns, not monsters …’ ‘what about Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Harry_Potter said angrily, as they went up the steps. ‘what about him?’ said Parvati_Patil, in a hard voice. ‘he can still be gamekeeper, can’t he?’ Parvati_Patil had been very cool towards Harry_Potter since the ball. he supposed that he ought to have paid her a bit more attention, but she seemed to have had a good time all the same. she was certainly telling anybody who would listen that she had made arrangements to meet the boy from beauxbatons in hogsmeade on the next weekend trip. ‘that was a really good lesson,’ said Hermione_Granger, as they entered the great hall. ‘i didn’t know half the things professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank told us about uni–’ ‘look at this!’ Harry_Potter snarled, and he shoved the daily prophet article under Hermione_Granger’s nose. Hermione_Granger’s mouth fell open as she read. her reaction was exactly the same as ron’s. ‘how did that horrible skeeter woman find out? you don’t think Rubeus_Hagrid told her?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter, leading the way over to the gryffindor table and throwing himself into a chair, furious. ‘he never even told us, did he? i reckon she was so mad he wouldn’t give her loads of horrible stuff about me, she went ferreting around to get back at him.’ ‘maybe she heard him telling madame maxime at the ball,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly. ‘we’d have seen her in the garden!’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘anyway, she’s not supposed to come into school any more, Rubeus_Hagrid said Albus_Dumbledore banned her …’ ‘maybe she’s got an invisibility cloak,’ said Harry_Potter, ladling chicken casserole onto his plate and splashing it everywhere in his anger. ‘sort of thing she’d do, isn’t it, hide in bushes listening to people.’ ‘like you and Ronald_Weasley did, you mean,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘we weren’t trying to hear him!’ said Ronald_Weasley indignantly. ‘we didn’t have any choice! the stupid git, talking about his giantess mother where anyone could have heard him!’ ‘we’ve got to go and see him,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘this evening, after divination. tell him we want him back … you do want him back?’ he shot at Hermione_Granger. ‘i – well, i’m not going to pretend it didn’t make a nice change, having a proper care of magical creatures lesson for once – but i do want Rubeus_Hagrid back, of course i do!’ Hermione_Granger added hastily, quailing under Harry_Potter’s furious stare. so that evening after dinner, the three of them left the castle once more, and went down through the frozen grounds to Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. they knocked, and Fang’s booming barks answered. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, it’s us!’ Harry_Potter shouted, pounding on the door. ‘open up!’ he didn’t answer. they could hear Fang scratching at the door, whining, but it didn’t open. they hammered on it for ten more minutes; Ronald_Weasley even went and banged on one of the windows, but there was no response. ‘what’s he avoiding us for?’ Hermione_Granger said, when they had finally given up, and were walking back to the school. ‘he surely doesn’t think we’d care about him being half-giant?’ but it seemed that Rubeus_Hagrid did care. they didn’t see a sign of him all week. he didn’t appear at the staff table at meal-times, they didn’t see him going about his gamekeeper duties in the grounds, and professor Wilhelmina_Grubbly-Plank continued to take the care of magical creatures classes. malfoy was gloating at every possible opportunity. ‘missing your half-breed pal?’ he kept whispering to Harry_Potter, whenever there was a teacher around, so that he was safe from Harry_Potter’s retaliation. ‘missing the elephant man?’ there was a hogsmeade visit halfway through january. Hermione_Granger was very surprised that Harry_Potter was planning to go. ‘i just thought you’d want to take advantage of the common room being quiet,’ she said. ‘really get to work on that egg.’ ‘oh, i – i reckon i’ve got a pretty good idea what it’s about now,’ Harry_Potter lied. ‘have you really?’ said Hermione_Granger, looking impressed. ‘well done!’ Harry_Potter’s insides gave a guilty squirm, but he ignored them. he still had five weeks to work out that egg clue, after all, and that was ages … and if he went into hogsmeade, he might run into Rubeus_Hagrid, and get a chance to persuade him to come back. he, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger left the castle together on saturday, and set off through the cold, wet grounds towards the gates. as they passed the durmstrang ship moored in the lake, they saw Viktor_Krum emerge onto the deck, dressed in nothing but swimming trunks. he was very skinny, but apparently a lot tougher than he looked, because he climbed up onto the side of the ship, stretched out his arms and dived, right into the lake. ‘he’s mad!’ said Harry_Potter, staring at krum’s dark head, as it bobbed out into the middle of the lake. ‘it must be freezing, it’s january!’ ‘it’s a lot colder where he comes from,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘i suppose it feels quite warm to him.’ ‘yeah, but there’s still the giant squid,’ said Ronald_Weasley he didn’t sound anxious – if anything, he sounded Hope_Howellful. Hermione_Granger notiCedric_Diggory his tone of voice, and frowned. ‘he’s really nice, you know,’ she said. ‘he’s not at all like you’d think, coming from durmstrang. he likes it much better here, he told me.’ Ronald_Weasley said nothing. he hadn’t mentioned Viktor_Krum since the ball, but Harry_Potter had found a miniature arm under his bed on boxing day, which had looked very much as though it had been snapped off a small model figure wearing bulgaria quidditch robes. Harry_Potter kept his eyes skinned for a sign of Rubeus_Hagrid all the way down the slushy high street, and suggested a visit to the three broomsticks once he had ascertained that Rubeus_Hagrid was not in any of the shops. the pub was as crowded as ever, but one quick look around at all the tables told Harry_Potter that Rubeus_Hagrid wasn’t there. heart sinking, he went up to the bar with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, ordered three butterbeers from madam Rosmerta, and thought gloomily that he might just as well have stayed behind and listened to the egg Wailing_Widow after all. ‘doesn’t he ever go into the office?’ Hermione_Granger whispered suddenly. ‘look!’ she pointed into the mirror behind the bar, and Harry_Potter saw Ludovic_Bagman bagman reflected there, sitting in a shadowy corner with a bunch of goblins. bagman was talking very fast in a low voice to the goblins, all of whom had their arms crossed, and were looking rather menacing. it was indeed odd, Harry_Potter thought, that bagman was here at the three broomsticks on a weekend when there was no triwizard event, and therefore no judging to be done. he watched bagman in the mirror. he was looking strained again, quite as strained as he had done that night in the forest before the dark mark had appeared. but just then bagman glanCedric_Diggory over at the bar, saw Harry_Potter, and stood up. ‘in a moment, in a moment!’ Harry_Potter heard him say brusquely to the goblins, and bagman hurried through the pub towards Harry_Potter, his boyish grin back in place. ‘Harry_Potter!’ he said. ‘how are you? been hoping to run into you! everything going all right?’ ‘fine, thanks,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘wonder if i could have a quick, private word, Harry_Potter?’ said bagman eagerly. ‘you couldn’t give us a moment, you two, could you?’ ‘er – ok,’ said Ronald_Weasley and he and Hermione_Granger went off to find a table. bagman led Harry_Potter along the bar to the end furthest from madam Rosmerta. ‘well, i just thought i’d congratulate you again on your splendid performance against that horntail, Harry_Potter,’ said bagman. ‘really superb.’ ‘thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, but he knew this couldn’t be all that bagman wanted to say, because he could have congratulated Harry_Potter in front of Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. bagman didn’t seem in any particular rush to spill the beans, though. Harry_Potter saw him glance into the mirror over the bar at the goblins, who were all watching him and Harry_Potter in silence through their dark, slanting eyes. ‘absolute nightmare,’ said bagman to Harry_Potter in an undertone, noticing Harry_Potter watching the goblins, too. ‘their english isn’t too good … it’s like being back with all the bulgarians at the quidditch world cup … but at least they used sign language another human could recognise. this lot keep gabbling in gobbledegook … and i only know one word of gobbledegook. bladvak. it means ‘pickaxe’. i don’t like to use it in case they think i’m threatening them.’ he gave a short, booming laugh. ‘what do they want?’ Harry_Potter said, noticing how the goblins were still watching bagman very closely. ‘er – well …’ said bagman, looking suddenly nervous. ‘they … er … they’re looking for Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch.’ ‘why are they looking for him here?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s at the ministry in london, isn’t he?’ ‘er … as a matter of fact, i’ve no idea where he is,’ said bagman. ‘he’s sort of … stopped coming to work. been absent for a couple of weeks now. young Percy_Weasley, his assistant, says he’s ill. apparently he’s just been sending instructions in by owl. but would you mind not mentioning that to anyone, Harry_Potter? because Rita_Skeeter’s still poking around everywhere she can, and i’m willing to bet she’d work Bartemius_Crouch_Senior’s illness up into something sinister. probably say he’s gone missing like Bertha_Jorkins.’ ‘have you heard anything about Bertha_Jorkins?’ Harry_Potter asked. ‘no,’ said bagman, looking strained again. ‘i’ve got people looking, of course …’ (about time, thought Harry_Potter) ‘and it’s all very strange. she definitely arrived in albania, because she met her second cousin there. and then she left the cousin’s house to go south and see an aunt … and she seems to have vanished without trace, en route. blowed if i can see where she’s got to … she doesn’t seem the type to elope, for instance … but still … what are we doing, talking about goblins and Bertha_Jorkins? i really wanted to ask you,’ he lowered his voice, ‘how are you getting on with your golden egg?’ ‘er … not bad,’ Harry_Potter said untruthfully. bagman seemed to know he wasn’t being honest. ‘listen, Harry_Potter,’ he said (still in a very low voice), ‘i feel very bad about all this … you were thrown into this tournament, you didn’t volunteer for it … and if’ (his voice was so quiet now, Harry_Potter had to lean closer to listen) ‘… if i can help at all … a prod in the right direction … i’ve taken a liking to you … the way you got past that dragon! … well, just say the word.’ Harry_Potter looked up into bagman’s round, rosy face, and wide, baby-blue eyes. ‘we’re supposed to work out the clues alone, aren’t we?’ he said, careful to keep his voice casual, and not sound as though he was accusing the head of the department of magical games and sports of breaking the rules. ‘well … well, yes,’ said bagman impatiently, ‘but – come on, Harry_Potter – we all want a hogwarts victory, don’t we?’ ‘have you offered Cedric_Diggory help?’ Harry_Potter said. the smallest of frowns creased bagman’s smooth face. ‘no, i haven’t,’ he said. ‘i – well, like i say, i’ve taken a liking to you. just thought i’d offer …’ ‘well, thanks,’ said Harry_Potter, ‘but i think i’m nearly there with the egg … couple more days should crack it.’ he wasn’t entirely sure why he was refusing bagman’s help, except that bagman was almost a stranger to him, and accepting his assistance would feel somehow much more like cheating than asking advice from Ronald_Weasley Hermione_Granger or Sirius_Black. bagman looked almost affronted, but couldn’t say much more as Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley turned up at that point. ‘hello, mr bagman,’ said Fred_Weasley brightly. ‘can we buy you a drink?’ ‘er … no,’ said bagman, with a last disappointed glance at Harry_Potter, ‘no thank you, boys …’ Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley looked quite as disappointed as bagman, who was surveying Harry_Potter as though he had let him down badly. ‘well, i must dash,’ he said. ‘nice seeing you all. good luck, Harry_Potter.’ he hurried out of the pub. the goblins all slid off their chairs and exited after him. Harry_Potter went to rejoin Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger. ‘what did he want?’ Ronald_Weasley said, the moment Harry_Potter had sat down. ‘he offered to help me with the golden egg,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he shouldn’t be doing that!’ said Hermione_Granger, looking very shocked. ‘he’s one of the judges! and anyway, you’ve already worked it out – haven’t you?’ ‘er … nearly,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘well, i don’t think Albus_Dumbledore would like it if he knew bagman was trying to persuade you to cheat!’ said Hermione_Granger, still looking deeply disapproving. ‘i Hope_Howell he’s trying to help Cedric_Diggory as much!’ ‘he’s not. i asked,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘who cares if diggory’s getting help?’ said Ronald_Weasley Harry_Potter privately agreed. ‘those goblins didn’t look very friendly,’ said Hermione_Granger, sipping her butterbeer. ‘what were they doing here?’ ‘looking for crouch, according to bagman,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘he’s still ill. hasn’t been into work.’ ‘maybe Percy_Weasley’s poisoning him,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘probably thinks if crouch snuffs it he’ll be made head of the department of international magical co- operation.’ Hermione_Granger gave Ronald_Weasley a don’t-joke-about-things-like-that look, and said, ‘funny, goblins looking for mr crouch … they’d normally deal with the department for the regulation and control of magical creatures.’ ‘crouch can speak loads of different languages, though,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘maybe they need an interpreter.’ ‘worrying about poor ’ickle goblins, now, are you?’ Ronald_Weasley asked Hermione_Granger. ‘thinking of starting up s.p.u.g. or something? society for the protection of ugly goblins?’ ‘ha, ha, ha,’ said Hermione_Granger sarcastically. ‘goblins don’t need protection. haven’t you been listening to what professor binns has been telling us about goblin rebellions?’ ‘no,’ said Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley together. ‘well, they’re quite capable of dealing with wizards,’ said Hermione_Granger, sipping more of her butterbeer. ‘they’re very clever. they’re not like house- elves, who never stick up for themselves.’ ‘uh oh,’ said Ronald_Weasley staring at the door. Rita_Skeeter had just entered. she was wearing banana-yellow robes today; her long nails were painted shocking pink, and she was accompanied by her paunchy photographer. she bought drinks, and she and the photographer made their way through the crowds to a table nearby, Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger glaring at her as she approached. she was talking fast and looking very satisfied about something. ‘… didn’t seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo? now, why would that be, do you think? and what’s he doing with a pack of goblins in tow anyway? showing them the sights … what nonsense … he was always a bad liar. reckon something’s up? think we should do a bit of digging? disgraCedric_Diggory ex- head of magical sports, Ludovic_Bagman bagman … snappy start to a sentence, Bozo – we just need to find a story to fit it –’ ‘trying to ruin someone else’s life?’ said Harry_Potter loudly. a few people looked around. Rita_Skeeter’s eyes widened behind her jewelled spectacles as she saw who had spoken. ‘Harry_Potter!’ she said, beaming. ‘how lovely! why don’t you come and join –?’ ‘i wouldn’t come near you with a ten-foot broomstick,’ said Harry_Potter furiously. ‘what did you do that to Rubeus_Hagrid for, eh?’ Rita_Skeeter raised her heavily pencilled eyebrows. ‘our readers have the right to know the truth, Harry_Potter, i am merely doing my –’ ‘who cares if he’s half-giant?’ Harry_Potter shouted. ‘there’s nothing wrong with him!’ the whole pub had gone very quiet. madam Rosmerta was staring over from behind the bar, apparently oblivious of the fact that the flagon she was filling with mead was overflowing. Rita_Skeeter’s smile flickered very slightly, but she hitched it back almost at once; she snapped open her crocodile-skin handbag, pulled out her quick- quotes quill and said, ‘how about giving me an interview about the Rubeus_Hagrid you know, Harry_Potter? the man behind the muscles? your unlikely friendship and the reasons behind it. would you call him a father substitute?’ Hermione_Granger stood up very abruptly, her butterbeer clutched in her hand as though it was a grenade. ‘you horrible woman,’ she said, through gritted teeth, ‘you don’t care, do you, anything for a story, and anyone will do, won’t they? even Ludovic_Bagman bagman –’ ‘sit down, you silly little girl, and don’t talk about things you don’t understand,’ said Rita_Skeeter coldly, her eyes hardening as they fell on Hermione_Granger. ‘i know things about Ludovic_Bagman bagman that would make your hair curl … not that it needs it –’ she added, eyeing Hermione_Granger’s bushy hair. ‘let’s go,’ said Hermione_Granger. ‘c’mon, Harry_Potter – Ronald_Weasley …’ they left; many people were staring at them as they went. Harry_Potter glanCedric_Diggory back as they reached the door. Rita_Skeeter’s quick-quotes quill was out; it was zooming backwards and forwards over a piece of parchment on the table. ‘she’ll be after you next, Hermione_Granger,’ said Ronald_Weasley in a low and worried voice as they walked quickly back up the street. ‘let her try!’ said Hermione_Granger shrilly; she was shaking with rage. ‘i’ll show her! silly little girl, am i? oh, i’ll get her back for this, first Harry_Potter, then Rubeus_Hagrid …’ ‘you don’t want to go upsetting Rita_Skeeter,’ said Ronald_Weasley nervously. ‘i’m serious, Hermione_Granger, she’ll dig something up on you –’ ‘my parents don’t read the daily prophet, she can’t scare me into hiding!’ said Hermione_Granger, now striding along so fast that it was all Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley could do to keep up with her. the last time Harry_Potter had seen Hermione_Granger in a rage like this, she had hit Draco_Malfoy around the face. ‘and Rubeus_Hagrid isn’t going to hide any more! he should never have let that excuse for a human being upset him! come on!’ breaking into a run, she led them all the way back up the road, through the gates flanked by winged boars, and up through the grounds to Rubeus_Hagrid’s cabin. the curtains were still drawn, and they could hear Fang barking as they approached. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid!’ Hermione_Granger shouted, pounding on his front door. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, that’s enough! we know you’re in there! nobody cares if your mum was a giantess, Rubeus_Hagrid! you can’t let that foul skeeter woman do this to you! Rubeus_Hagrid, get out here, you’re just being –’ the door opened. Hermione_Granger said ‘about t–!’ and then stopped, very suddenly, because she had found herself face to face, not with Rubeus_Hagrid, but with Albus_Dumbledore. ‘good afternoon,’ he said pleasantly, smiling down at them. ‘we – er – we wanted to see Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger in a rather small voice. ‘yes, i surmised as much,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, his eyes twinkling. ‘why don’t you come in?’ ‘oh … um … ok,’ said Hermione_Granger. she, Ronald_Weasley and Harry_Potter went into the cabin; Fang launched himself upon Harry_Potter the moment he entered, barking madly and trying to lick his ears. Harry_Potter fended Fang off, and looked around. Rubeus_Hagrid was sitting at his table, where there were two large mugs of tea. he looked a real mess. his face was blotchy, his eyes swollen, and he had gone to the other extreme where his hair was concerned; far from trying to make it behave, it now looked like a wig of tangled wire. ‘hi, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Harry_Potter. Rubeus_Hagrid looked up. ‘’lo,’ he said, in a very hoarse voice. ‘more tea, i think,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, closing the door behind Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, drawing out his wand and twiddling it; a revolving tea-tray appeared in mid-air, along with a plate of cakes. Albus_Dumbledore magicked the tray onto the table, and everybody sat down. there was a slight pause, and then Albus_Dumbledore said, ‘did you by any chance hear what miss granger was shouting, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ Hermione_Granger went slightly pink, but Albus_Dumbledore smiled at her, and continued, ‘Hermione_Granger, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley still seem to want to know you, judging by the way they were attempting to break down the door.’ ‘of course we still want to know you!’ Harry_Potter said, staring at Rubeus_Hagrid. ‘you don’t think anything that skeeter cow – sorry, professor,’ he added quickly, looking at Albus_Dumbledore. ‘i have gone temporarily deaf and haven’t any idea what you said, Harry_Potter,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, twiddling his thumbs and staring at the ceiling. ‘er – right,’ said Harry_Potter sheepishly. ‘i just meant – Rubeus_Hagrid, how could you think we’d care what that – woman – wrote about you?’ two fat tears leaked out of Rubeus_Hagrid’s beetle-black eyes and fell slowly into his tangled beard. ‘living proof of what i’ve been telling you, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, still looking carefully up at the ceiling. ‘i have shown you the letters from the countless parents who remember you from their own days here, telling me in no uncertain terms that, if i sacked you, they would have something to say about it –’ ‘not all of ’em,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid hoarsely. ‘not all of ’em wan’ me ter stay.’ ‘really, Rubeus_Hagrid, if you are holding out for universal popularity, i’m afraid you will be in this cabin for a very long time,’ said Albus_Dumbledore, now peering sternly over his half-moon spectacles. ‘not a week has passed, since i became headmaster of this school, when i haven’t had at least one owl complaining about the way i run it. but what should i do? barricade myself in my study and refuse to talk to anybody?’ ‘yeh – yeh’re not half-giant!’ said Rubeus_Hagrid croakily. ‘Rubeus_Hagrid, look what i’ve got for relatives!’ Harry_Potter said furiously. ‘look at Vernon_Dursley and Petunia_Dursley!’ ‘an excellent point,’ said professor Albus_Dumbledore. ‘my own brother, Aberforth_Dumbledore, was prosecuted for practising inappropriate charms on a goat. it was all over the papers, but did Aberforth_Dumbledore hide? no, he did not! he held his head high and went about his business as usual! of course, i’m not entirely sure he can read, so that may not have been brAvery_II …’ ‘come back and teach, Rubeus_Hagrid,’ said Hermione_Granger quietly, ‘please come back, we really miss you.’ Rubeus_Hagrid gulped. more tears leaked out down his cheeks and into his tangled beard. Albus_Dumbledore stood up. ‘i refuse to accept your resignation, Rubeus_Hagrid, and i expect you back at work on monday,’ he said. ‘you will join me for breakfast at eight thirty in the great hall. no excuses. good afternoon to you all.’ Albus_Dumbledore left the cabin, pausing only to scratch Fang’s ears. when the door had shut behind him, Rubeus_Hagrid began to sob into his dustbin-lid-sized hands. Hermione_Granger kept patting his arm, and at last Rubeus_Hagrid looked up, his eyes very red indeed, and said, ‘great man, Albus_Dumbledore … great man …’ ‘yeah, he is,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘can i have one of these cakes, Rubeus_Hagrid?’ ‘help yerself,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, wiping his eyes on the back of his hand. ‘ar, he’s righ’, o’ course – yeh’re all righ’ … i bin stupid … my ol’ dad woulda bin ashamed o’ the way i’ve bin behavin’ …’ more tears leaked out, but he wiped them away more forcefully, and said, ‘never shown you a picture of my old dad, have i? here …’ Rubeus_Hagrid got up, went over to his dresser, opened a drawer and pulled out a picture of a short wizard with Rubeus_Hagrid’s crinkled black eyes, beaming as he sat on top of Rubeus_Hagrid’s shoulder. Rubeus_Hagrid was a good seven or eight feet tall, judging by the apple tree beside him, but his face was beardless, young, round and smooth – he looked hardly older than eleven. ‘tha’ was taken jus’ after i got inter hogwarts,’ said Rubeus_Hagrid, croakily. ‘dad was dead chuffed … thought i migh’ not be a wizard, see, ’cos me mum … well, anyway. ’course, i never was great shakes at magic, really … but at least he never saw me expelled. died, see, in me second year … ‘Albus_Dumbledore was the one who stuck up for me after dad went. got me the gamekeeper job … trusts people, he does. gives ’em second chances … tha’s what sets him apar’ from other heads, see. he’ll accept anyone at hogwarts, s’long as they’ve got the talent. knows people can turn out ok even if their families weren’ … well … all tha’ respectable. but some don’ understand that. there’s some who’d always hold it against yeh … there’s some who’d even pretend they just had big bones rather than stand up an’ say – i am what i am, an’ i’m not ashamed. “never be ashamed,” my ol’ dad used ter say, “there’s some who’ll hold it against you, but they’re not worth botherin’ with.” an’ he was right. i’ve bin an idiot. i’m not botherin’ with her no more, i promise yeh that. big bones … i’ll give her big bones.’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked at each other nervously; Harry_Potter would rather have taken fifty Blast-Ended_Skrewts for a walk than admit to Rubeus_Hagrid that he had overheard him talking to madame maxime, but Rubeus_Hagrid was still talking, apparently unaware that he had said anything odd. ‘yeh know wha’, Harry_Potter?’ he said, looking up from the photograph of his father, his eyes very bright. ‘when i firs’ met you, you reminded me o’ me a bit. mum an’ dad gone, an’ you was feelin’ like yeh wouldn’ fit in at hogwarts, remember? not sure yeh were really up to it … an’ now look at yeh, Harry_Potter! school champion!’ he looked at Harry_Potter for a moment and then said, very seriously, ‘yeh know what i’d love, Harry_Potter? i’d love yeh ter win, i really would. it’d show ’em all … yeh don’ have ter be pure-blood ter do it. yeh don’ have ter be ashamed of what yeh are. it’d show ’em Albus_Dumbledore’s the one who’s got it righ’, lettin’ anyone in as long as they can do magic. how you doin’ with that egg, Harry_Potter?’ ‘great,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘really great.’ Rubeus_Hagrid’s miserable face broke into a wide, watery smile. ‘tha’s my boy … you show ’em, Harry_Potter, you show ’em. beat ’em all.’ lying to Rubeus_Hagrid wasn’t quite like lying to anyone else. Harry_Potter went back to the castle later that afternoon with Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger, unable to banish the image of the happy expression on Rubeus_Hagrid’s whiskery face as he had imagined Harry_Potter winning the tournament. the incomprehensible egg weighed more heavily than ever on Harry_Potter’s conscience that evening, and by the time he had got into bed, he had made up his mind – it was time to shelve his pride, and see if Cedric_Diggory’s hint was worth anything. 