— chapter eight — the quidditch world cup clutching their purchases, Arthur_Weasley in the lead, they all hurried into the wood, following the lantern-lit trail. they could hear the sounds of thousands of people moving around them, shouts and laughter, snatches of singing. the atmosphere of feverish excitement was highly infectious; Harry_Potter couldn’t stop grinning. they walked through the wood for twenty minutes, talking and joking loudly, until at last they emerged on the other side, and found themselves in the shadow of a gigantic stadium. though Harry_Potter could see only a fraction of the immense gold walls surrounding the pitch, he could tell that ten cathedrals would fit comfortably inside it. ‘seats a hundred thousand,’ said Arthur_Weasley, spotting the awestruck look on Harry_Potter’s face. ‘ministry task force of five hundred have been working on it all year. muggle-repelling charms on every inch of it. every time muggles have got anywhere near here all year, they’ve suddenly remembered urgent appointments and had to dash away again … bless them,’ he added fondly, leading the way towards the nearest entrance, which was already surrounded by a swarm of shouting witches and wizards. ‘prime seats!’ said the ministry witch at the entrance, when she checked their tickets. ‘top box! straight upstairs, Arthur_Weasley, and as high as you can go.’ the stairs into the stadium were carpeted in rich purple. they clambered upwards with the rest of the crowd, which slowly filtered away through doors into the stands to their left and right. Arthur_Weasley’s party kept climbing, and at last they reached the top of the staircase, and found themselves in a small box, set at the highest point of the stadium and situated exactly halfway between the golden goalposts. about twenty purple-and-gilt chairs stood in two rows here, and Harry_Potter, filing into the front seats with the weasleys, looked down upon a scene the like of which he could never have imagined. a hundred thousand witches and wizards were taking their places in the seats which rose in levels around the long oval pitch. everything was suffused with a mysterious golden light that seemed to come from the stadium itself. the pitch looked smooth as velvet from their lofty position. at either end of    the pitch stood three goal hoops, fifty feet high; right opposite them, almost at Harry_Potter’s eye level, was a gigantic blackboard. gold writing kept dashing across it as though an invisible giant’s hand was scrawling upon it and then wiping it off again; watching it, Harry_Potter saw that it was flashing advertisements across the pitch. the bluebottle: a broom for all the family – safe, reliable and with in- built anti-burglar buzzer … mrs skower’s all-purpose magical mess- remover: no pain, no stain!… gladrags wizardwear – london, paris, hogsmeade … Harry_Potter tore his eyes away from the sign and looked over his shoulder to see who else was sharing the box with them. so far it was empty, except for a tiny creature sitting in the second from last seat at the end of the row behind them. the creature, whose legs were so short they stuck out in front of it on the chair, was wearing a tea-towel draped like a toga, and it had its face hidden in its hands. yet those long, bat-like ears were oddly familiar … ‘Dobby?’ said Harry_Potter incredulously. the tiny creature looked up and parted its fingers, revealing enormous brown eyes and a nose the exact size and shape of a large tomato. it wasn’t Dobby – it was, however, unmistakeably a house-elf, as Harry_Potter’s friend Dobby had been. Harry_Potter had set Dobby free from his old owners, the malfoy family. ‘did sir just call me Dobby?’ squeaked the Winky curiously, from between its fingers. its voice was higher even than Dobby’s had been, a teeny, quivering squeak of a voice, and Harry_Potter suspected – though it was very hard to tell with a house-elf – that this one might just be female. Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger spun around in their seats to look. though they had heard a lot about Dobby from Harry_Potter, they had never actually met him. even Arthur_Weasley looked around in interest. ‘sorry,’ Harry_Potter told the elf, ‘i just thought you were someone i knew.’ ‘but i knows Dobby too, sir!’ squeaked the elf. she was shielding her face, as though blinded by light, though the top box was not brightly lit. ‘my name is Winky, sir – and you, sir –’ her dark brown eyes widened to the size of side plates as they rested upon Harry_Potter’s scar, ‘you is surely Harry_Potter!’ ‘yeah, i am,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but Dobby talks of you all the time, sir!’ she said, lowering her hands very slightly and looking awestruck. ‘how is he?’ said Harry_Potter. ‘how’s freedom suiting him?’ ‘ah, sir,’ said Winky, shaking her head, ‘ah, sir, meaning no disrespect, sir,   but i is not sure you did Dobby a favour, sir, when you is setting him free.’ ‘why?’ said Harry_Potter, taken aback. ‘what’s wrong with him?’ ‘freedom is going to Dobby’s head, sir,’ said Winky sadly. ‘ideas above his station, sir. can’t get another position, sir.’ ‘why not?’ said Harry_Potter. Winky lowered her voice by a half octave and whispered, ‘he is wanting paying for his work, sir.’ ‘paying?’ said Harry_Potter blankly. ‘well – why shouldn’t he be paid?’ Winky looked quite horrified at the idea, and closed her fingers slightly so that her face was half-hidden again. ‘house-elves is not paid, sir!’ she said in a muffled squeak. ‘no, no, no. i says to Dobby, i says, go find yourself a nice family and settle down, Dobby. he is getting up to all sorts of high jinks, sir, what is unbecoming to a house- elf. you goes racketing around like this, Dobby, i says, and next thing i hear you’s up in front of the department for the regulation and control of magical creatures, like some common goblin.’ ‘well, it’s about time he had a bit of fun,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘house-elves is not supposed to have fun, Harry_Potter,’ said Winky firmly, from behind her hands. ‘house-elves does what they is told. i is not liking heights at all, Harry_Potter –’ she glanCedric_Diggory towards the edge of the box and gulped, ‘– but my master sends me to the top box and i comes, sir.’ ‘why’s he sent you up here, if he knows you don’t like heights?’ said Harry_Potter, frowning. ‘master – master wants me to save him a seat, Harry_Potter, he is very busy,’ said Winky, tilting her head towards the empty space beside her. ‘Winky is wishing she is back in master’s tent, Harry_Potter, but Winky does what she is told, Winky is a good house-elf.’ she gave the edge of the box another frightened look, and hid her eyes completely again. Harry_Potter turned back to the others. ‘so that’s a house-elf?’ Ronald_Weasley muttered. ‘weird things, aren’t they?’ ‘Dobby was weirder,’ said Harry_Potter, fervently. Ronald_Weasley pulled out his omnioculars and started testing them, staring down into the crowd on the other side of the stadium. ‘wild!’ he said, twiddling the replay knob on the side. ‘i can make that old bloke down there pick his nose again … and again … and again …’ Hermione_Granger, meanwhile, was skimming eagerly through her velvet-covered, tasselled programme. ‘“a display from the team mascots will preCedric_Diggorye the match”,’ she read aloud. ‘oh, that’s always worth watching,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘national teams bring creatures from their native land, you know, to put on a bit of a show.’ the box filled gradually around them over the next half hour. Arthur_Weasley kept shaking hands with people who were obviously very important wizards. Percy_Weasley jumped to his feet so often that he looked as though he was trying to sit on a hedgehog. when Cornelius_Fudge, the minister for magic himself, arrived, Percy_Weasley bowed so low that his glasses fell off and shattered. highly embarrassed, he repaired them with his wand, and thereafter remained in his seat, throwing jealous looks at Harry_Potter, whom Cornelius_Fudge had greeted like an old friend. they had met before, and fudge shook Harry_Potter’s hand in fatherly fashion, asked how he was, and introduCedric_Diggory him to the wizards on either side of him. ‘Harry_Potter, you know,’ he loudly told the bulgarian minister, who was wearing splendid robes of black velvet trimmed with gold, and didn’t seem to understand a word of english. ‘Harry_Potter … oh, come on now, you know who he is … the boy who survived Tom_Riddle … you do know who he is –’ the bulgarian wizard suddenly spotted Harry_Potter’s scar and started gabbling loudly and excitedly, pointing at it. ‘knew we’d get there in the end,’ said fudge wearily to Harry_Potter. ‘i’m no great shakes at languages, i need Bartemius_Crouch_Senior crouch for this sort of thing. ah, i see his house-elf’s saving him a seat … good job too, these bulgarian blighters have been trying to cadge all the best places … ah, and here’s Lucius_Malfoy!’ Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger turned quickly. edging along the second row to three still-empty seats right behind Arthur_Weasley were none other than Dobby the house-elf’s old owners – Lucius_Malfoy, his son, Draco_Malfoy, and a woman Harry_Potter supposed must be Draco_Malfoy’s mother. Harry_Potter and Draco_Malfoy had been enemies ever since their very first journey to hogwarts. a pale boy with a pointed face and white-blond hair, Draco_Malfoy greatly resembled his father. his mother was blonde, too; tall and slim, she would have been nice looking if she hadn’t been wearing a look that suggested there was a nasty smell under her nose. ‘ah, fudge,’ said mr malfoy, holding out his hand as he reached the minister for magic. ‘how are you? i don’t think you’ve met my wife, Narcissa_Malfoy? or our son, Draco_Malfoy?’ ‘how do you do, how do you do?’ said fudge, smiling and bowing to mrs malfoy. ‘and allow me to introduce you to mr oblansk – obalonsk – mr – well, he’s the bulgarian minister for magic, and he can’t understand a word i’m saying anyway, so never mind. and let’s see who else – you know Arthur_Weasley, i daresay?’ it was a tense moment. Arthur_Weasley and mr malfoy looked at each other and Harry_Potter vividly recalled the last time that they had come face to face; it had been in flourish and blotts bookshop, and they had had a fight. mr malfoy’s cold grey eyes swept over Arthur_Weasley, and then up and down the row. ‘good lord, Arthur_Weasley,’ he said softly. ‘what did you have to sell to get seats in the top box? surely your house wouldn’t have fetched this much?’ fudge, who wasn’t listening, said, ‘Lucius_Malfoy has just given a very generous contribution to st mungo’s hospital for magical maladies and injuries, Arthur_Weasley. he’s here as my guest.’ ‘how – how nice,’ said Arthur_Weasley, with a very strained smile. mr malfoy’s eyes had returned to Hermione_Granger, who went slightly pink, but stared determinedly back at him. Harry_Potter knew exactly what was making mr malfoy’s lip curl. the malfoys prided themselves on being pure-bloods; in other words, they considered anyone of muggle descent, like Hermione_Granger, second-class. however, under the gaze of the minister for magic, mr malfoy didn’t dare say anything. he nodded sneeringly to Arthur_Weasley, and continued down the line to his seats. Draco_Malfoy shot Harry_Potter, Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger one contemptuous look, then settled himself between his mother and father. ‘slimy gits,’ Ronald_Weasley muttered, as he, Harry_Potter and Hermione_Granger turned to face the pitch again. next moment, Ludovic_Bagman bagman had charged into the box. ‘everyone ready?’ he said, his round face gleaming like a great, excited edam. ‘minister – ready to go?’ ‘ready when you are, Ludovic_Bagman,’ said fudge comfortably. Ludovic_Bagman whipped out his wand, directed it at his own throat and said ‘sonorus!’ and then spoke over the roar of sound that was now filling the packed stadium; his voice echoed over them, booming into every corner of the stands: ‘ladies and gentlemen … welcome! welcome to the final of the four hundred and twenty-second quidditch world cup!’ the spectators screamed and clapped. thousands of flags waved, adding their discordant national anthems to the racket. the huge blackboard opposite them was wiped clear of its last message (bertie bott’s every flavour beans – a risk with every mouthful!) and now showed bulgaria: zero, ireland: zero. ‘and now, without further ado, allow me to introduce … the bulgarian team mascots!’ the right-hand side of the stands, which was a solid block of scarlet, roared its approval. ‘i wonder what they’ve brought?’ said Arthur_Weasley, leaning forwards in his seat. ‘aaah!’ he suddenly whipped off his glasses and polished them hurriedly on his robes. ‘veela!’ ‘what are veel–?’ but a hundred veela were now gliding out onto the pitch, and Harry_Potter’s question was answered for him. veela were women … the most beautiful women Harry_Potter had ever seen … except that they weren’t – they couldn’t be – human. this puzzled Harry_Potter for a moment, while he tried to guess what exactly they could be; what could make their skin shine moon-bright like that, or their white-gold hair fan out behind them without wind … but then the music started, and Harry_Potter stopped worrying about them not being human – in fact, he stopped worrying about anything at all. the veela had started to dance, and Harry_Potter’s mind had gone completely and blissfully blank. all that mattered in the world was that he kept watching the veela, because if they stopped dancing, terrible things would happen … and as the veela danCedric_Diggory faster and faster, wild, half-formed thoughts started chasing through Harry_Potter’s dazed mind. he wanted to do something very impressive, right now. jumping from the box into the stadium seemed a good idea … but would it be good enough? ‘Harry_Potter, what are you doing?’ said Hermione_Granger’s voice from a long way off. the music stopped. Harry_Potter blinked. he was standing up, and one of his legs was resting on the wall of the box. next to him, Ronald_Weasley was frozen in an attitude that looked as though he was about to dive from a springboard. angry yells were filling the stadium. the crowd didn’t want the veela to go. Harry_Potter was with them; he would, of course, be supporting bulgaria, and he wondered vaguely why he had a large green shamrock pinned to his chest. Ronald_Weasley meanwhile, was absent-mindedly shredding the shamrocks on his hat. Arthur_Weasley, smiling slightly, leant over to Ronald_Weasley and tugged the hat out of his hands. ‘you’ll be wanting that,’ he said, ‘once ireland have had their say.’ ‘huh?’ said Ronald_Weasley staring open-mouthed at the veela, who had now lined up along one side of the pitch. Hermione_Granger made a loud tutting noise. she reached up and pulled Harry_Potter back into his seat. ‘honestly!’ she said. ‘and now,’ roared Ludovic_Bagman bagman’s voice, ‘kindly put your wands in the air … for the irish national team mascots!’ next moment, what seemed to be a great green-and-gold comet had come zooming into the stadium. it did one circuit of the stadium, then split into two smaller comets, each hurtling towards the goalposts. a rainbow arCedric_Diggory suddenly across the pitch, connecting the two balls of light. the crowd ‘oooohed’ and ‘aaaaahed’, as though at a firework display. now the rainbow faded and the balls of light reunited and merged; they had formed a great shimmering shamrock, which rose up into the sky and began to soar over the stands. something like golden rain seemed to be falling from it – ‘excellent!’ yelled Ronald_Weasley as the shamrock soared over their heads, and heavy gold coins rained from it, bouncing off their heads and seats. squinting up at the shamrock, Harry_Potter realised that it was actually composed of thousands of tiny little bearded men with red waistcoats, each carrying a minute lamp of gold or green. ‘leprechauns!’ said Arthur_Weasley, over the tumultuous applause of the crowd, many of whom were still fighting and rummaging around under their chairs to retrieve the gold. ‘there you go,’ Ronald_Weasley yelled happily, stuffing a fistful of gold coins into Harry_Potter’s hand. ‘for the omnioculars! now you’ve got to buy me a christmas present, ha!’ the great shamrock dissolved, the leprechauns drifted down onto the pitch on the opposite side from the veela, and settled themselves cross-legged to watch the match. ‘and now, ladies and gentlemen, kindly welcome – the bulgarian national quidditch team! i give you – dimitrov!’ a scarlet-clad figure on a broomstick, moving so fast it was blurred, shot out onto the pitch from an entrance far below, to wild applause from the bulgarian supporters. ‘Clara_Ivanova!’ a second scarlet-robed player zoomed out. ‘zograf! levski! Pyotr_Vulchanov! Ivan_Volkov! aaaaaaand – krum!’ ‘that’s him,  that’s him!’ yelled Ronald_Weasley following krum with his omnioculars; Harry_Potter quickly focused his own. Viktor_Krum was thin, dark and sallow-skinned, with a large curved nose and thick black eyebrows. he looked like an overgrown bird of prey. it was hard to believe he was only eighteen. ‘and now, please greet – the irish national quidditch team!’ yelled bagman. ‘presenting – Connolly! ryan! Troy! Mullet! moran! Quigley! aaaaaand – lynch!’ seven green blurs swept onto the pitch; Harry_Potter spun a small dial on the side of his omnioculars, and slowed the players down enough to read the word ‘firebolt’ on each of their brooms, and see their names, embroidered in silver, upon their backs. ‘and here, all the way from egypt, our referee, acclaimed chairwizard of the international association of quidditch, Hassan_Mostafa!’ a small and skinny wizard, completely bald but with a moustache to rival uncle Vernon_Dursley’s, wearing robes of pure gold to match the stadium, strode out onto the pitch. a silver whistle was protruding from under the moustache, and he was carrying a large wooden crate under one arm, his broomstick under the other. Harry_Potter spun the speed dial on his omnioculars back to normal, watching closely as mostafa mounted his broomstick and kicked the crate open – four balls burst into the air: the scarlet quaffle, the two black bludgers and (Harry_Potter saw it for the briefest moment, before it sped out of sight) the minuscule, winged, golden snitch. with a sharp blast on his whistle, mostafa shot into the air after the balls. ‘theeeeeeeey’re off!’ screamed bagman. ‘and it’s Mullet! Troy! moran! dimitrov! back to Mullet! Troy! levski! moran!’ it was quidditch as Harry_Potter had never seen it played before. he was pressing his omnioculars so hard to his eyes that his glasses were cutting into the bridge of his nose. the speed of the players was incredible – the chasers were throwing the quaffle to each other so fast that bagman only had time to say their names. Harry_Potter spun the ‘slow’ dial on the right of his omnioculars again, pressed the ‘play by play’ button on the top and he was immediately watching in slow motion, while glittering purple lettering flashed across the lenses, and the noise of the crowd pounded against his eardrums. ‘hawkshead attacking formation’ he read, as he watched the three irish chasers zoom closely together, Troy in the centre, slightly ahead of Mullet and moran, bearing down upon the bulgarians. ‘porskoff ploy’ flashed up next, as Troy made as though to dart upwards with the quaffle, drawing away the bulgarian chaser Clara_Ivanova, and dropping the quaffle to moran. one of the bulgarian beaters, Ivan_Volkov, swung hard at a passing bludger with his small club, knocking it into moran’s path; moran ducked to avoid the bludger and dropped the quaffle; and levski, soaring beneath, caught it – ‘Troy scores!’ roared bagman, and the stadium shuddered with a roar of applause and cheers. ‘ten–zero to ireland!’ ‘what?’ Harry_Potter yelled, looking wildly around through his omnioculars. ‘but levski’s got the quaffle!’ ‘Harry_Potter, if you’re not going to watch at normal speed, you’re going to miss things!’ shouted Hermione_Granger, who was dancing up and down, waving her arms in the air while Troy did a lap of honour of the pitch. Harry_Potter looked quickly over the top of his omnioculars, and saw that the leprechauns watching from the side-lines had all risen into the air again, and formed the great, glittering shamrock. across the pitch, the veela were watching them sulkily. furious with himself, Harry_Potter spun his speed dial back to normal as play resumed. Harry_Potter knew enough about quidditch to see that the irish chasers were superb. they worked as a seamless team, appearing to read each other’s minds by the way they positioned themselves, and the rosette on Harry_Potter’s chest kept squeaking their names: ‘Troy – Mullet – moran!’ and within ten minutes, ireland had scored twice more, bringing their lead to thirty–zero, and causing a thunderous tide of roars and applause from the green-clad supporters. the match became still faster, but more brutal. Ivan_Volkov and Pyotr_Vulchanov, the bulgarian beaters, were whacking the bludgers as fiercely as possible at the irish chasers, and were starting to prevent them using some of their best moves; twice they were forCedric_Diggory to scatter, and then, finally, Clara_Ivanova managed to break through their ranks, dodge the keeper, ryan, and score bulgaria’s first goal. ‘fingers in your ears!’ bellowed Arthur_Weasley, as the veela started to dance in celebration. Harry_Potter screwed up his eyes, too; he wanted to keep his mind on the game. after a few seconds, he chanCedric_Diggory a glance at the pitch. the veela had stopped dancing, and bulgaria were again in possession of the quaffle. ‘dimitrov! levski! dimitrov! Clara_Ivanova – oh, i say!’ roared bagman. one hundred thousand wizards and witches gasped as the two seekers, krum and lynch, plummeted through the centre of the chasers, so fast that it looked as though they had just jumped from aeroplanes without parachutes. Harry_Potter followed their descent through his omnioculars, squinting to see where the snitch was – ‘they’re going to crash!’ screamed Hermione_Granger next to Harry_Potter. she was half-right – at the very last second, Viktor_Krum pulled out of the dive and spiralled off. lynch, however, hit the ground with a dull thud that could be heard throughout the stadium. a huge groan rose from the irish seats. ‘fool!’ moaned Arthur_Weasley. ‘krum was feinting!’ ‘it’s time out!’ yelled bagman’s voice. ‘as trained mediwizards hurry onto the pitch to examine Aidan_Lynch!’ ‘he’ll be ok, he only got ploughed!’ Charles_Weasley said reassuringly to Ginevra_Weasley, who was hanging over the side of the box, looking horror-struck. ‘which is what krum was after, of course …’ Harry_Potter hastily pressed the ‘replay’ and ‘play by play’ buttons on his omnioculars, twiddled the speed dial, and put them back up to his eyes. he watched as krum and lynch dived again in slow motion. ‘wronski feint – dangerous seeker diversion’ read the shining purple lettering across his lenses. he saw krum’s face contorted with concentration as he pulled out of the dive just in time, while lynch was flattened, and he understood – krum hadn’t seen the snitch at all, he was just making lynch copy him. Harry_Potter had never seen anyone fly like that; krum hardly looked as though he was using a broomstick at all; he moved so easily through the air that it looked as though he was unsupported and weightless. Harry_Potter turned his omnioculars back to normal, and focused them on krum. he was circling high above lynch, who was now being revived by mediwizards with cups of potion. Harry_Potter, focusing still more closely upon krum’s face, saw his dark eyes darting all over the ground a hundred feet below. he was using the time while lynch was revived to look for the snitch without interference. lynch got to his feet at last, to loud cheers from the green-clad supporters, mounted his firebolt and kicked back off into the air. his revival seemed to give ireland new heart. when mostafa blew his whistle again, the chasers moved into action with a skill unrivalled by anything Harry_Potter had seen so far. after fifteen more fast and furious minutes, ireland had pulled ahead by ten more goals. they were now leading by one hundred and thirty points to ten, and the game was starting to get dirtier. as Mullet shot towards the goalposts yet again, clutching the quaffle tightly under her arm, the bulgarian keeper, zograf, flew out to meet her. whatever happened was over so quickly Harry_Potter didn’t catch it, but a scream of rage from the irish crowd, and mostafa’s long, shrill whistle blast, told him it had been a foul. ‘and mostafa takes the bulgarian keeper to task for cobbing – excessive use of elbows!’ bagman informed the roaring spectators. ‘and – yes, it’s a penalty to ireland!’ the leprechauns, who had risen angrily into the air like a swarm of glittering hornets when Mullet had been fouled, now darted together to form the words ‘ha ha ha!’. the veela on the other side of the pitch leapt to their feet, tossed their hair angrily and started to dance again. as one, the weasley boys and Harry_Potter stuffed their fingers in their ears, but Hermione_Granger, who hadn’t bothered, was soon tugging on Harry_Potter’s arm. he turned to look at her, and she pulled his fingers impatiently out of his ears. ‘look at the referee!’ she said, giggling. Harry_Potter looked down at the pitch. Hassan_Mostafa had landed right in front of the dancing veela, and was acting very oddly indeed. he was flexing his muscles and smoothing his moustache excitedly. ‘now, we can’t have that!’ said Ludovic_Bagman bagman, though he sounded highly amused. ‘somebody slap the referee!’ a mediwizard came tearing across the pitch, his fingers stuffed in his own ears, and kicked mostafa hard on the shins. mostafa seemed to come to himself; Harry_Potter, watching through the omnioculars again, saw that he looked exceptionally embarrassed, and was shouting at the veela, who had stopped dancing and were looking mutinous. ‘and unless i’m much mistaken, mostafa is actually attempting to send off the bulgarian team mascots!’ said bagman’s voice. ‘now there’s something we haven’t seen before … oh, this could turn nasty …’ it did: the bulgarian beaters, Ivan_Volkov and Pyotr_Vulchanov, had landed either side of mostafa, and began arguing furiously with him, gesticulating towards the leprechauns, who had now gleefully formed the words ‘hee hee hee’. mostafa was not impressed by the bulgarians’ arguments, however; he was jabbing his finger into the air, clearly telling them to get flying again, and when they refused, he gave two short blasts on his whistle. ‘two penalties for ireland!’ shouted bagman, and the bulgarian crowd howled with anger. ‘and Ivan_Volkov and Pyotr_Vulchanov had better get back on those brooms … yes … there they go … and Troy takes the quaffle …’ play now reached a level of ferocity beyond anything they had yet seen. the beaters on both sides were acting without mercy: Ivan_Volkov and Pyotr_Vulchanov in particular seemed not to care whether their clubs made contact with bludger or human, as they swung them violently through the air. dimitrov shot straight at moran, who had the quaffle, nearly knocking her off her broom. ‘foul!’ roared the irish supporters as one, all standing up in a great wave of green. ‘foul!’ echoed Ludovic_Bagman bagman’s magically magnified voice. ‘dimitrov skins moran – deliberately flying to collide there – and it’s got to be another penalty – yes, there’s the whistle!’ the leprechauns had risen into the air again and, this time, they formed a giant hand, which was making a very rude sign indeed across the pitch towards the veela. at this, the veela lost control. they launched themselves across the pitch, and began throwing what seemed to be handfuls of fire at the leprechauns. watching through his omnioculars, Harry_Potter saw that they didn’t look remotely beautiful now. on the contrary, their faces were elongating into sharp, cruel-beaked bird heads, and long, scaly wings were bursting from their shoulders – ‘and that, boys,’ yelled Arthur_Weasley over the tumult of the crowd below, ‘is why you should never go for looks alone!’ ministry wizards were flooding onto the field to separate the veela and the leprechauns, but with little success; meanwhile, the pitched battle below was nothing to the one above. Harry_Potter turned this way and that, staring through his omnioculars, as the quaffle changed hands with the speed of a bullet – ‘levski – dimitrov – moran – Troy – Mullet – Clara_Ivanova – moran again – moran – moran scores!’ but the cheers of the irish supporters were barely heard over the shrieks of the veela, the blasts now issuing from the ministry members’ wands, and the furious roars of the bulgarians. the game recommenCedric_Diggory immediately; now levski had the quaffle, now dimitrov – the irish beater Quigley swung heavily at a passing bludger, and hit it as hard as possible towards krum, who did not duck quickly enough. it hit him hard in the face. there was a deafening groan from the crowd; krum’s nose looked broken, there was blood everywhere, but Hassan_Mostafa didn’t blow his whistle. he had become distracted, and Harry_Potter couldn’t blame him; one of the veela had thrown a handful of fire and set his broomtail alight. Harry_Potter wanted someone to realise that krum was injured; even though he was supporting ireland, krum was the most exciting player on the pitch. Ronald_Weasley obviously felt the same. ‘time out! ah, come on, he can’t play like that, look at him –’ ‘look at lynch!’ Harry_Potter yelled. for the irish seeker had suddenly gone into a dive, and Harry_Potter was quite sure that this was no wronski feint; this was the real thing … ‘he’s seen the snitch!’ Harry_Potter shouted. ‘he’s seen it! look at him go!’ half the crowd seemed to have realised what was happening, the irish supporters rose in a great wave of green, screaming their seeker on … but krum was on his tail. how he could see where he was going, Harry_Potter had no idea; there were flecks of blood flying through the air behind him, but he was drawing level with lynch now, as the pair of them hurtled towards the ground again – ‘they’re going to crash!’ shrieked Hermione_Granger. ‘they’re not!’ roared Ronald_Weasley ‘lynch is!’ yelled Harry_Potter. and he was right – for the second time, lynch hit the ground with tremendous force, and was immediately stampeded by a horde of angry veela. ‘the snitch, where’s the snitch?’ bellowed Charles_Weasley, along the row. ‘he’s got it – krum’s got it – it’s all over!’ shouted Harry_Potter. krum, his red robes shining with blood from his nose, was rising gently into the air, his fist held high, a glint of gold in his hand. the scoreboard was flashing bulgaria: one hundred and sixty, ireland: one hundred and seventy across the crowd, who didn’t seem to have realised what had happened. then, slowly, as though a great jumbo jet was revving up, the rumbling from the ireland supporters grew louder and louder and erupted into screams of delight. ‘ireland win!’ shouted bagman, who, like the irish, seemed to have been taken aback by the sudden end of the match. ‘krum gets the snitch – but ireland win – good lord, i don’t think any of us were expecting that!’ ‘what did he catch the snitch for?’ Ronald_Weasley bellowed, even as he jumped up and down, applauding with his hands over his head. ‘he ended it when ireland were a hundred and sixty points ahead, the idiot!’ ‘he knew they were never going to catch up,’ Harry_Potter shouted back over all the noise, also applauding loudly, ‘the irish chasers were too good … he wanted to end it on his terms, that’s all …’ ‘he was very brave, wasn’t he?’ Hermione_Granger said, leaning forward to watch krum land, and the swarm of mediwizards blasting a path through the battling leprechauns and veela to get to him. ‘he looks a terrible mess …’ Harry_Potter put his omnioculars to his eyes again. it was hard to see what was happening below, because leprechauns were zooming delightedly all over the pitch, but he could just make out krum, surrounded by mediwizards. he looked surlier than ever, and refused to let them mop him up. his team-mates were around him, shaking their heads and looking dejected; a short way away, the irish players were dancing gleefully in a shower of gold descending from their mascots. flags were waving all over the stadium, the irish national anthem blared from all sides; the veela were shrinking back into their usual, beautiful selves now, though looking dispirited and forlorn. ‘vell, ve fought bravely,’ said a Gloomy_nuns voice behind Harry_Potter. he looked around; it was the bulgarian minister for magic. ‘you can speak english!’ said fudge, sounding outraged. ‘and you’ve been letting me mime everything all day!’ ‘vell, it vos very funny,’ said the bulgarian minister, shrugging. ‘and as the irish team perform a lap of honour, flanked by their mascots, the quidditch world cup itself is brought into the top box!’ roared bagman. Harry_Potter’s eyes were suddenly dazzled by a blinding white light, as the top box was magically illuminated so that everyone in the stands could see the inside. squinting towards the entrance, he saw two panting wizards carrying into the box a vast golden cup, which they handed to Cornelius_Fudge, who was still looking very disgruntled that he’d been using sign language all day for nothing. ‘let’s have a really loud hand for the gallant losers – bulgaria!’ bagman shouted. and up the stairs into the box came the seven defeated bulgarian players. the crowd below were applauding appreciatively; Harry_Potter could see thousands and thousands of omniocular lenses flashing and winking in their direction. one by one, the bulgarians filed between the rows of seats in the box, and bagman called out the name of each as they shook hands with their own minister and then with fudge. krum, who was last in line, looked a real mess. two black eyes were blooming spectacularly on his Bloody_Baron face. he was still holding the snitch. Harry_Potter notiCedric_Diggory that he seemed much less co-ordinated on the ground. he was slightly duck-footed and distinctly round-shouldered. but when krum’s name was announCedric_Diggory, the whole stadium gave him a resounding, ear-splitting roar. and then came the irish team. Aidan_Lynch was being supported by moran and Connolly; the second crash seemed to have dazed him and his eyes looked strangely unfocused. but he grinned happily as Troy and Quigley lifted the cup into the air and the crowd below thundered their approval. Harry_Potter’s hands were numb with clapping. at last, when the irish team had left the box to perform another lap of honour on their brooms (Aidan_Lynch on the back of Connolly’s, clutching hard around his waist and still grinning in a bemused sort of way), bagman pointed his wand at his throat and muttered ‘quietus’. ‘they’ll be talking about this one for years,’ he said hoarsely, ‘a really unexpected twist, that … shame it couldn’t have lasted longer … ah yes … yes, i owe you … how much?’ for Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley had just scrambled over the backs of their seats, and were standing in front of Ludovic_Bagman bagman with broad grins on their faces, their hands outstretched. 