— chapter ten — mayhem at the ministry Arthur_Weasley woke them after only a few hours’ sleep. he used magic to pack up the tents, and they left the campsite as quickly as possible, passing mr roberts at the door of his cottage. mr roberts had a strange, dazed look about him, and he waved them off with a vague ‘merry christmas’. ‘he’ll be all right,’ said Arthur_Weasley quietly, as they marched off onto the moor. ‘sometimes, when a person’s memory’s modified, it makes them a bit disorientated for a while … and that was a big thing they had to make him forget.’ they heard urgent voices as they approached the spot where the portkeys lay and, when they reached it, they found a great number of witches and wizards gathered around Basil, the keeper of the portkeys, all clamouring to get away from the campsite as quickly as possible. Arthur_Weasley had a hurried discussion with Basil; they joined the queue, and were able to take an old rubber tyre back to stoatshead hill before the sun had really risen. they walked back through ottery st catchpole towards the burrow in the dawn light, talking very little because they were so exhausted, and thinking longingly of their breakfast. as they rounded the corner in the lane, and the burrow came into view, a cry echoed along the damp lane. ‘oh, thank goodness, thank goodness!’ Molly_Weasley, who had evidently been waiting for them in the front yard, came running towards them, still wearing her bedroom slippers, her face pale and strained, a screwed-up copy of the daily prophet clutched in her hand. ‘Arthur_Weasley – i’ve been so worried – so worried –’ she flung her arms around Arthur_Weasley’s neck, and the daily prophet fell out of her limp hand onto the ground. looking down, Harry_Potter saw the headline: scenes of terror at the quidditch world cup, complete with a twinkling, black-and-white photograph of the dark mark over the tree-tops. ‘you’re all right,’ Molly_Weasley muttered distractedly, releasing Arthur_Weasley and staring around at them all with red eyes, ‘you’re alive … oh, boys …’ and to everybody’s surprise, she seized Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley and pulled them    both into such a tight hug that their heads banged together. ‘ouch! mum – you’re strangling us –’ ‘i shouted at you before you left!’ Molly_Weasley said, starting to sob. ‘it’s all i’ve been thinking about! what if Tom_Riddle had got you, and the last thing i ever said to you was that you didn’t get enough o.w.ls? oh, Fred_Weasley … George_Weasley …’ ‘come on, now, Molly_Weasley, we’re all perfectly ok,’ said Arthur_Weasley soothingly, prising her off the twins and leading her back towards the house. ‘bill,’ he added in an undertone, ‘pick up that paper, i want to see what it says …’ when they were all crammed into the tiny kitchen, and Hermione_Granger had made Molly_Weasley a cup of very strong tea, into which Arthur_Weasley insisted on pouring a shot of ogdens old firewhisky, William_Weasley handed his father the newspaper. Arthur_Weasley scanned the front page while Percy_Weasley looked over his shoulder. ‘i knew it,’ said Arthur_Weasley heavily. ‘ministry blunders … culprits not apprehended … lax security … dark wizards running unchecked … national disgrace … who wrote this? ah … of course … Rita_Skeeter.’ ‘that woman’s got it in for the ministry of magic!’ said Percy_Weasley furiously. ‘last week she was saying we’re wasting our time quibbling about cauldron thickness, when we should be stamping out vampires! as if it wasn’t specifically stated in paragraph twelve of the guidelines for the treatment of non-wizard part-humans –’ ‘do us a favour, Percy_Weasley,’ said bill, yawning, ‘and shut up.’ ‘i’m mentioned,’ said Arthur_Weasley, his eyes widening behind his glasses as he reached the bottom of the daily prophet article. ‘where?’ spluttered Molly_Weasley, choking on her tea and whisky. ‘if i’d seen that, i’d have known you were alive!’ ‘not by name,’ said Arthur_Weasley. ‘listen to this: “if the terrified wizards and witches who waited breathlessly for news at the edge of the wood expected reassurance from the ministry of magic, they were sadly disappointed. a ministry official emerged some time after the appearance of the dark mark, alleging that nobody had been hurt, but refusing to give any more information. whether this statement will be enough to quash the rumours that several bodies were removed from the woods an hour later, remains to be seen.” oh, really,’ said Arthur_Weasley in exasperation, handing the paper to Percy_Weasley. ‘nobody was hurt, what was i supposed to say? rumours that several bodies were removed from the woods … well, there certainly will be rumours now she’s printed that.’ he heaved a deep sigh. ‘Molly_Weasley, i’m going to have to go into the office, this is going to take some smoothing over.’ ‘i’ll come with you, father,’ said Percy_Weasley importantly. ‘mr crouch will need all hands on deck. and i can give him my cauldron report in person.’ he bustled out of the kitchen. Molly_Weasley looked most upset. ‘Arthur_Weasley, you’re supposed to be on holiday! this hasn’t got anything to do with your office, surely they can handle this without you?’ ‘i’ve got to go, Molly_Weasley,’ said Arthur_Weasley, ‘i’ve made things worse. i’ll just change into my robes and i’ll be off …’ ‘Molly_Weasley,’ said Harry_Potter suddenly, unable to contain himself, ‘Hedwig hasn’t arrived with a letter for me, has she?’ ‘Hedwig, dear?’ said Molly_Weasley distractedly. ‘no … no, there hasn’t been any post at all.’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger looked curiously at Harry_Potter. with a meaningful look at both of them he said, ‘all right if i go and dump my stuff in your room, Ronald_Weasley’ ‘yeah … think i will, too,’ said Ronald_Weasley at once. ‘Hermione_Granger?’ ‘yes,’ she said quickly, and the three of them marched out of the kitchen and up the stairs. ‘what’s up, Harry_Potter?’ said Ronald_Weasley the moment they had closed the door of the attic room behind them. ‘there’s something i haven’t told you,’ Harry_Potter said. ‘on saturday morning, i woke up with my scar hurting again.’ Ronald_Weasley and Hermione_Granger’s reactions were almost exactly as Harry_Potter had imagined them back in his bedroom in privet drive. Hermione_Granger gasped and started making suggestions at once, mentioning a number of reference books, and everybody from Albus_Dumbledore to madam pomfrey, the hogwarts matron. Ronald_Weasley simply looked dumbstruck. ‘but – he wasn’t there, was he? you- know-who? i mean – last time your scar kept hurting, he was at hogwarts, wasn’t he?’ ‘i’m sure he wasn’t in privet drive,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but i was dreaming about him … him and Peter_Pettigrew – you know, Peter_Pettigrew. i can’t remember all of it now, but they were plotting to kill … someone.’ he had teetered for a moment on the verge of saying ‘me’, but couldn’t bring himself to make Hermione_Granger look any more horrified than she already did. ‘it was only a dream,’ said Ronald_Weasley bracingly. ‘just a nightmare.’ ‘yeah, but was it, though?’ said Harry_Potter, turning to look out of the window at the brightening sky. ‘it’s weird, isn’t it … my scar hurts, and three days later the death eaters are on the march, and voldemort’s sign’s up in the sky again.’ ‘don’t – say – his – name!’ Ronald_Weasley hissed through gritted teeth. ‘and remember what professor Sybill_Trelawney said?’ Harry_Potter went on, ignoring Ronald_Weasley ‘at the end of last year?’ professor Sybill_Trelawney was their divination teacher at hogwarts. Hermione_Granger’s terrified look vanished as she let out a derisive snort. ‘oh, Harry_Potter, you aren’t going to pay any attention to anything that old fraud says?’ ‘you weren’t there,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘you didn’t hear her. this time was different. i told you, she went into a trance – a real one. and she said the dark lord would rise again … greater and more terrible than ever before … and he’d manage it because his servant was going to go back to him … and that night Peter_Pettigrew escaped.’ there was a silence in which Ronald_Weasley fidgeted absent-mindedly with a hole in his chudley cannons bedspread. ‘why were you asking if Hedwig had come, Harry_Potter?’ Hermione_Granger asked. ‘are you expecting a letter?’ ‘i told Sirius_Black about my scar,’ said Harry_Potter, shrugging. ‘i’m waiting for his answer.’ ‘good thinking!’ said Ronald_Weasley his expression clearing. ‘i bet Sirius_Black’ll know what to do!’ ‘i Hope_Howelld he’d get back to me quickly,’ said Harry_Potter. ‘but we don’t know where Sirius_Black is … he could be in africa or somewhere, couldn’t he?’ said Hermione_Granger reasonably. ‘Hedwig’s not going to manage that journey in a few days.’ ‘yeah, i know,’ said Harry_Potter, but there was a leaden feeling in his stomach as he looked out of the window at the Hedwig-free sky. ‘come and have a game of quidditch in the orchard, Harry_Potter,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘come on – three on three, William_Weasley and Charles_Weasley and Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley will play … you can try out the wronski feint …’ ‘ron,’ said Hermione_Granger, in an i-don’t-think-you’re-being-very-sensitive sort of voice, ‘Harry_Potter doesn’t want to play quidditch right now … he’s worried, and he’s tired … we all need to go to bed …’ ‘yeah, i want to play quidditch,’ said Harry_Potter suddenly. ‘hang on, i’ll get my firebolt.’ Hermione_Granger left the room, muttering something which sounded very much like ‘boys’. * neither Arthur_Weasley nor Percy_Weasley was at home much over the following week. both left the house each morning before the rest of the family got up, and returned well after dinner every night. ‘it’s been absolute uproar,’ Percy_Weasley told them importantly, the sunday evening before they were due to return to hogwarts. ‘i’ve been putting out fires all week. people keep sending howlers and of course, if you don’t open a howler straight away, it explodes. scorch marks all over my desk and my best quill reduced to cinders.’ ‘why are they all sending howlers?’ asked Ginevra_Weasley, who was mending her copy of one thousand magical herbs and fungi with spellotape on the rug in front of the living-room fire. ‘complaining about security at the world cup,’ said Percy_Weasley. ‘they want compensation for their ruined property. MunMundungus_Fletcherus_Fletcher’s put in a claim for a twelve-bedroomed tent with en-suite jacuzzi, but i’ve got his number. i know for a fact he was sleeping under a cloak propped on sticks.’ Molly_Weasley glanced at the grandfather clock in the corner. Harry_Potter liked this clock. it was completely useless if you wanted to know the time, but otherwise very informative. it had nine golden hands, and each of them was engraved with one of the weasley family’s names. there were no numerals around the face, but descriptions of where each family member might be. ‘home’, ‘school’ and ‘work’ were there, but there was also ‘lost’, ‘hospital’, ‘prison’ and, in the position where the number twelve would be on a normal clock, ‘mortal peril’. eight of the hands were currently pointing at the ‘home’ position, but Arthur_Weasley’s, which was the longest, was still pointing at ‘work’. Molly_Weasley sighed. ‘your father hasn’t had to go into the office at weekends since the days of Tom_Riddle,’ she said. ‘they’re working him far too hard. his dinner’s going to be ruined if he doesn’t come home soon.’ ‘well, father feels he’s got to make up for his mistake at the match, doesn’t he?’ said Percy_Weasley. ‘if truth be told, he was a tad unwise to make a public statement without clearing it with his head of department first –’ ‘don’t you dare blame your father for what that wretched skeeter woman wrote!’ said Molly_Weasley, flaring up at once. ‘if dad hadn’t said anything, old Rita_Skeeter would just have said it was disgraceful that nobody from the ministry had commented,’ said bill, who was playing chess with Ronald_Weasley ‘Rita_Skeeter never makes anyone look good. remember, she interviewed all the Gringotts_Head_Goblin curse breakers once, and called me “a long-haired pillock”?’ ‘well, it is a bit long, dear,’ said Molly_Weasley gently. ‘if you’d just let me –’ ‘no, mum.’ rain lashed against the living-room window. Hermione_Granger was immersed in the standard book of spells, grade 4, copies of which Molly_Weasley had bought for her, Harry_Potter and Ronald_Weasley in diagon alley. Charles_Weasley was darning a fireproof balaclava. Harry_Potter was polishing his firebolt, the broomstick servicing kit Hermione_Granger had given him for his thirteenth birthday open at his feet. Fred_Weasley and George_Weasley were sitting in a far corner, quills out, talking in whispers, their heads bent over a piece of parchment. ‘what are you two up to?’ said Molly_Weasley sharply, her eyes on the twins. ‘homework,’ said Fred_Weasley vaguely. ‘don’t be ridiculous, you’re still on holiday,’ said Molly_Weasley. ‘yeah, we’ve left it a bit late,’ said George_Weasley. ‘you’re not by any chance writing out a new order form, are you?’ said Molly_Weasley shrewdly. ‘you wouldn’t be thinking of restarting weasleys’ wizard wheezes, by any chance?’ ‘now, mum,’ said Fred_Weasley, looking up at her, a pained look on his face. ‘if the hogwarts express crashed tomorrow, and George_Weasley and i died, how would you feel knowing that the last thing we ever heard from you was an unfounded accusation?’ everyone laughed, even Molly_Weasley. ‘oh, your father’s coming!’ she said suddenly, looking up at the clock again. Arthur_Weasley’s hand had suddenly spun from ‘work’ to ‘travelling’; a second later it had shuddered to a halt on ‘home’ with the others, and they heard him calling from the kitchen. ‘coming, Arthur_Weasley!’ called Molly_Weasley, hurrying out of the room. a few moments later, Arthur_Weasley had come into the warm living room, carrying his dinner on a tray. he looked completely exhausted. ‘well, the fat’s really in the fire now,’ he told Molly_Weasley as he sat down in an armchair near the fire and toyed unenthusiastically with his somewhat shrivelled cauliflower. ‘Rita_Skeeter’s been ferreting around all week, looking for more ministry mess-ups to report. and now she’s found out about poor old Bertha_Jorkins going missing, so that’ll be the headline in the prophet tomorrow. i told bagman he should have sent someone to look for her ages ago.’ ‘mr crouch has been saying it for weeks and weeks,’ said Percy_Weasley swiftly. ‘crouch is very lucky Rita_Skeeter hasn’t found out about Winky,’ said Arthur_Weasley irRita_Skeeterbly. ‘there’d be a week’s worth of headlines in his house-elf being caught holding the wand that conjured the dark mark.’ ‘i thought we were all agreed that that elf, while irresponsible, did not conjure the mark?’ said Percy_Weasley hotly. ‘if you ask me, mr crouch is very lucky no one at the daily prophet knows how mean he is to elves!’ said Hermione_Granger angrily. ‘now, look here, Hermione_Granger!’ said Percy_Weasley. ‘a high-ranking ministry official like mr crouch deserves unswerving obedience from his servants –’ ‘his slave, you mean!’ said Hermione_Granger, her voice rising shrilly. ‘because he didn’t pay Winky, did he?’ ‘i think you’d all better go upstairs and check that you’ve packed properly!’ said Molly_Weasley, breaking up the argument. ‘come on, now, all of you …’ Harry_Potter repacked his broomstick servicing kit, put his firebolt over his shoulder and went back upstairs with Ronald_Weasley the rain sounded even louder at the top of the house, accompanied by loud whistlings and moans from the wind, not to mention sporadic howls from the ghoul who lived in the attic. Pigwidgeon began twittering and zooming around his cage again when they entered. the sight of the half-packed trunks seemed to have sent him into a frenzy of excitement. ‘bung him some owl treats,’ said Ronald_Weasley throwing a packet across to Harry_Potter, ‘it might shut him up.’ Harry_Potter poked a few owl treats through the bars of Pigwidgeon’s cage, then turned to his trunk. Hedwig’s cage stood next to it, still empty. ‘it’s been over a week,’ Harry_Potter said, looking at Hedwig’s deserted perch. ‘ron, you don’t reckon Sirius_Black has been caught, do you?’ ‘nah, it would’ve been in the daily prophet,’ said Ronald_Weasley ‘the ministry would want to show they’d caught someone, wouldn’t they?’ ‘yeah, i suppose …’ ‘look, here’s the stuff mum got for you in diagon alley. and she’s got some gold out of your vault for you … and she’s washed all your socks.’ he heaved a pile of parcels onto Harry_Potter’s camp bed and dropped the money bag and a load of socks next to it. Harry_Potter started unwrapping the shopping. apart from the standard book of spells, grade 4, by miranda goshawk, he had a handful of new quills, a dozen rolls of parchment and refills for his potion-making kit – he had been running low on spine of lionfish and essence of belladonna. he was just piling underwear into his cauldron when Ronald_Weasley made a loud noise of disgust behind him. ‘what is that supposed to be?’ he was holding up something that looked to Harry_Potter like a long, maroon velvet dress. it had a mouldy-looking lace frill at the collar and matching lace cuffs. there was a knock on the door, and Molly_Weasley entered, carrying an armful of freshly laundered hogwarts robes. ‘here you are,’ she said, sorting them into two. ‘now, mind you pack them properly so they don’t crease.’ ‘mum, you’ve given me Ginevra_Weasley’s new dress,’ said Ronald_Weasley holding it out to her. ‘of course i haven’t,’ said Molly_Weasley. ‘that’s for you. dress robes.’ ‘what?’ said Ronald_Weasley looking horror-struck. ‘dress robes!’ repeated Molly_Weasley. ‘it says on your school list that you’re supposed to have dress robes this year … robes for formal occasions.’ ‘you’ve got to be kidding,’ said Ronald_Weasley in disbelief. ‘i’m not wearing that, no way.’ ‘everyone wears them, Ronald_Weasley’ said Molly_Weasley crossly. ‘they’re all like that! your father’s got some for smart parties!’ ‘i’ll go starkers before i put that on,’ said Ronald_Weasley stubbornly. ‘don’t be so silly,’ said Molly_Weasley, ‘you’ve got to have dress robes, they’re on your list! i got some for Harry_Potter, too … show him, Harry_Potter …’ in some trepidation, Harry_Potter opened the last parcel on his camp bed. it wasn’t as bad as he had expected, however; his dress robes didn’t have any lace on them at all; in fact, they were more or less the same as his school ones, except that they were bottle green instead of black. ‘i thought they’d bring out the colour of your eyes, dear,’ said Molly_Weasley fondly. ‘well, they’re ok!’ said Ronald_Weasley angrily, looking at Harry_Potter’s robes. ‘why couldn’t i have some like that?’ ‘because … well, i had to get yours second-hand, and there wasn’t a lot of choice!’ said Molly_Weasley, flushing. Harry_Potter looked away. he would willingly have split all the money in his Gringotts_Head_Goblin vault with the weasleys, but he knew they would never take it. ‘i’m never wearing them,’ Ronald_Weasley was saying stubbornly. ‘never.’ ‘fine,’ snapped Molly_Weasley. ‘go naked. and Harry_Potter, make sure you get a picture of him. goodness knows i could do with a laugh.’ she left the room, slamming the door behind her. there was a funny spluttering noise from behind them. Pigwidgeon was choking on an overlarge owl treat. ‘why is everything i own rubbish?’ said Ronald_Weasley furiously, striding across the room to unstick Pigwidgeon’s beak. 